---
title: About Docsy
linkTitle: About
menu:
  main:
    weight: 10
layout: docs
---

{{% blocks/cover title="About Docsy" height="auto" %}}

Docsy is a pre-configured Hugo theme that provides the core features and behaviors needed to create a technical documentation site. Use Docsy to set up your documentation website, including an optional Blog section, and then spend your time focusing on authoring technical content. Depending on how you choose to configure Docsy and whether you use a hosting service that supports continuous builds, you can even just add your Markdown or HTML content file into a folder on your source repository, and then sit back while it automatically gets added to your site - complete with updated menus.

Read on to find out more, or visit our [documentation](/docs/) to get started!
{{% /blocks/cover %}}

{{% blocks/section color="primary" %}}
## So what’s a technical documentation site?

A technical documentation site is a website that your users can visit to find the documentation for your technical project.  Your documentation set contains all the information you think your users might need to engage with your project, from overviews that help them understand what the project is for, to instructions for specific tasks. Depending on the size of the project, a documentation set can be a page or two or an entire “book” with different types of information.

**Most users don’t want to have to spend much time looking at docs - they want to try your great project!** So how do you make sure your technical documentation set gives users what they need to easily understand your project and get things done? We think a good technical documentation set should be:

*   **Reliable**: Is it true?
*   **Comprehensive**: Does it have all the information your target users might need?
*   **Well-organized and navigable**: Can the user find the information they need? Are similar types of information (all the information about a feature, all your reference information) grouped together?

If you have users around the world, you might also want to provide your content in multiple languages, and if you have an open source project, you’ll probably want your users to be able to contribute to the docs.

Once you have your content, you use a technical documentation site to publish your technical documentation set online for your users. In addition to your documentation, your site might also contain material like contact information, a blog, or information about how to contribute to the project.
{{% /blocks/section %}}

{{% blocks/section color="white" %}}
## How does Docsy help?

Particularly when working with open source projects, it can be difficult to figure out how to turn all your product knowledge into a website that helps and engages your users. **Enter Docsy!**

Docsy gives you a theme for the [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) static site generator, an established open source tool that builds ready-to-serve websites from a set of theme and content files. The Docsy theme provides you with useful stuff for a technical documentation site that *isn’t* your own content:

<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Page layouts optimized for different content types</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Navigation, page menus, headers, landing pages, blog snippets, feedback links - you just provide the content.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Autogenerated navigation</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Organize your docs in logical folders and get instantly updated navigation to help your users find them.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Language switchers</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Builds on Hugo’s multi-language support to make it easy to create a site in multiple languages.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Feedback, contribution, and contact links</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Let your users file issues and edit docs with a single click, or follow contact links to join you on Slack, Twitter, or mailing lists.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Custom shortcodes</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Reusable snippets of HTML you can use to create alerts, image boxes, landing page blocks, and more.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Easy customization</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Use the theme as-is for a basic, clean design, or update a file or two to get your own look.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Simple previews and deployment</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Because Docsy is a Hugo theme, you get all the advantages of building with Hugo - simple, fast local previews, and, depending on your deployment options, continuous deployment from Github.
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

Once you add your own content about your own project as simple Markdown or HTML, Hugo builds them all together into a site that’s ready to go. You can then serve your site using any of Hugo’s supported [deployment options](/docs/deployment/).


### Make it your own

You can [configure the theme](/docs/adding-content/lookandfeel/) as much or as little as you like, anything from changing the colours and images to adding your own type of [page layout](docs/adding-content/content/#content-sections-and-templates).

### Get organized

We believe a well-organized documentation set can really help your users find the information they need, when they need it - whether it’s a “Hello World” tutorial when they’re starting out or a single core task they need to do to finish a complicated app. We also believe that having well-organized docs help you create comprehensive docs, as it’s easier to see when you’re missing something important. 

Because of this, Docsy has an example website (and a little sibling set in Docsy’s [own docs](/docs/)) that you can copy and edit, complete with advice about different types of docs and where to put them. You can read more about our recommendations in [Organizing Your Content](/docs/organizing/).

Docsy also provides autogenerated [site navigation](/docs/adding-content/navigation/) based on how you organize your source files, so once you’ve organized your docs in folders in Github or other source control, you’ve got menus for your users to quickly reach the doc they need.


### Keep up to date

Spend time setting up your technical documentation site once, and then focus on what you do best. We work closely with the Hugo team and have individuals actively maintaining the Docsy theme. You can easily get and apply Docsy updates to your site, as well as open feature requests to improve the template, or even add new behaviors


### Focus on great content

Because Docsy helps you create and serve a well-organized, navigable technical documentation set, it frees you up to create and maintain great reliable, comprehensive content that your users can enjoy and trust.
{{% /blocks/section %}}



