# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2024-12-05
## Agenda https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/11
**Attendees:** Ines Akrap (*Chair*), Tim Frick (*Chair*), Mike Gifford (*Chair*), Alexander Dawson (*Editor*), Tzviya Siegman (*W3C*), Adam Newman, Alekh Gupta, Andrea Davanzo, Christian H Brown, Emily Trotter, François Burra, Greg MacDonald, Hidde De Vries, Ignacio Rondini, Jeroen Hulscher, Kazuhito Kidachi, Laurent Devernay, Louise Towler, Łukasz Mastalerz, Nahuai Badiola, Neil Clark, Nick Sollecito, Sarah Zama, Thorsten Jonas
## Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/ "Code of Conduct")
Alex Dawson gave a quick overview of the work that happened so far
Tim Frick: if you want to get involved, bookmark the links shared incl the [GitHub page](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/ "Github") and #sustainability in the W3C Slack. If you want to get involved as someone who works for a W3C member, you can join, if not, you can join as an Invited Expert (there’s a bit of process and we expect some commitment).

Tim Frick: first set of guidelines was a first pass, we’re now hoping to make them more measurable. 

Tim Frick: we’ll need to find a new meeting time that works for everyone in the group.

## [Propose a roadmap](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/10 "issue 10")
Alexander Dawson: If anyone would like to see things added to the list, feel free to do so.

Tzviya Siegman: we’ll publish a W3C Statement, not a W3C Recommendation, it will have wide review and AC review. Within the sustainability community we had good feedback, some positive, some less so (eg measurability). 

Mike Gifford: part of why we do this is there’s a need for governments to have best practices. It is urgent too, as there’s nothing out there.

Tim Frick: we’ll use the word “guidelines” until we find out what’s recommendations vs guidelines. Agreed re Mike’s point of speed. 

Tim: Let’s figure out what we can do with what we have, create guidelines (not nec standards). We can look at TFs. Think about what TF you’d like to be on.

Andrea: 2 weeks ago I was at a Low-Carbon conference. Lots of pressure to go ahead with guidelines. E,g, question about what is best back-end language. Java was worst, JS, second worst, Swift is best. 

Laurent: France & Europe are trying to establish a repository of best practices for ecodesign of digital services but we need something more global to get everyone on the same level, something similar to WCAG (even if it is not possible to be strictly similar to this for sustainability).

Louise: there are things that are measurable and less measurable. Can we triage what’s more or less work?

Tim: Yes, that is one of the things we can use help with.

Alex: we did look at what could be machine tested vs what needs manual testing. A model sustainability community has is ok, but also flawed, if we can have the community of interested parties together in a task force we can analyse that information, that can feed into tooling that can produce better quantifiable evidence that can feed back into Web Sustainability Guidelines. And also show when one thing is better than the other. Community needs it and we do too. [Issue about creating task force](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/8#issuecomment-2485963377 "issue 8") For the current set we look at GLI (?), if there are better models and metrics we can integrate those too. We want to back it up with relevant and large studies.

Thorsten: in talks/workshops I see a lot that folks want to know how to prioritise. What we haven’t looked at much yet is all the unnecessary data that is being stored, that is not being used. Rather than choice of programming language etc.

Lukasz: @@@ 

Tim: we can go through the guidelines 1 by 1 and review. We’ll need to discuss what goes into the IG vs other groups.
Tzviya: The community group met once a month; most community groups meet weekly, I think we need to meet at least every two weeks.

## Release schedule: living document vs stable releases (https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/5)
Alex: we had a process for the first version of WSG. We had a living document, where alterations could be made, this was the drafts. Then in the base directory we had public versions, snapshots basically that were released on a set schedule, once we found them stable enough to qualify for that. We could go down that methodology, and various members of the group seemed happy.

Andrea: sometimes it takes a while for changes to publish, would like this to be faster pace.

Alex: goal of stable snapshots is so that governments and larger organisations can rely on them

Tzviya: agreed with Andrea, and the documents are dated, so it is possible to point to a specific release date

Alex: For non-normative/supplementary guidance and resources, it’d be perfectly fine to have them in one repository, but some might prefer that.
