# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-01-23

## Agenda https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/16

Attendees: Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Kazuhito Kidachi (Mitsue-Links), Łukasz Mastalerz, Nicola Bonotto (Piano D), Tristan Nitot (TAG & OCTO Technology), Laurent Devernay Satyagraha (Greenspector), Andrea Davanzo (Open University), Ryan Sholin (Overt Impact), Francesco Fullone (Daruma Consulting), Chris Adams (GSF), Crystal Preston-Watson (Salesforce), Christian H Brown (Mitsue-Links), Denis Didier, Adam Newman, Oliver Winks, Sara Zama (Oxford), Jennifer Strickland (Mitre)

## Introductions & Code of Conduct
Consent to record meeting and share recording to email list.

## Open Issues:
<a href="https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/10">Our Draft Note deadline</a>
* First Draft: 30 June 2025
* Final Draft: 31 Dec 2025
* Measurability: 31 Mar 2026
* W3C Draft Note: 22 Apr 2026 (Earth Day)

## <a href="https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/8">Create task forces for WSG</a>
* Discuss where broader subjects (content, marketing, AI) should be placed.
* Overview and allow people to get names down for different groups.
* Break into groups:
 * Assign a scribe
 * Nominate & vote for Task Force leads.
 * Quick group review of existing guidelines.
 * Discussion on how best to audit the guidelines (keep as is, remove, add, update, fix).
 * Note: Measurability TF will discuss how best to approach better metrics data.
 * Create a rough timeline for objectives / meetings / strategy.
* Begin work using groups <a href="https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1k5pzPq2AtBeriymXyMOiuu6mrMhN_ZVb?usp=drive_link">Google Doc</a> (if helpful) to achieve objectives.

See detailed minutes from individual groups:

Business/strat - no leader yet, is this applicable to one site/page? Some legislation requiring working on csrd

WebDev: avoid clashing with a11y specs, reconsider approach to specific tech like JS, because would have to mention other tech like php, should say dynamic/static pages. 

Measurability: Łukasz - trying to understand the goal, want to understand creators to reduce, discuss usability of guidelines, research on our own v use what exists. Will probably use what exists, but we know that it’s unlikely to be measurable with high precision, so we will have to aim for executable.

UX: discussed process, new members - will check who else wants to participate. Many people missing today. Discussed a11y, performance, and identified ways UX impacts the people affected and how it can quickly make people understand the work we are doing.

Hosting/Infra: Trying to understand audience/scope, what is measurable and understandable. Are these binary questions or for discussion? We tried to understand who we might bring in and interview - people from public cloud, orgs with existing sustainability reports, etc and focused on some specific guidelines and how they might be improved.

## AOB
Question about how to submit editorial comments about WSG. Alex will accept GitHub Pull Requests, issues, Google Docs, email, or carrier pigeon. Get the information to Alex, and he will synethesize it into the ReSpec document.


Save the date: Next meeting is Feb 06 2025.
