# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-03-20

## Agenda https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/26

Attendees:  Ines Akrap (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Łukasz Mastalerz, Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Thorsten Jonas, Kazuhito Kidachi, Ryan Sholin, François Burra (Climate Product Leaders), Nahuai Badiola, Adam Newman, Rose Newell, Hidde de Vries, Francesco Fullone, Alekh Gupta, Alisa Bonsignore, Andrea Davanzo, Crystal Preston-Watson, Jennifer Strickland, Laurent Devernay Satyagraha, Oliver Winks, Shane Herath

Regrets: Tim Frick, Christian Brown

## Introductions & Code of Conduct
Consent to record meeting and share recording to email list.

## Open issues:

- Alex: WSG Progress Report

  - New SC ([Sustainable Brand Development](https://w3c.github.io/sustainableweb-wsg/index.html#success-criterion-sustainable-brand-development-human-testable)) - improved general readability of doc, thanks to Rose

  - Lots of under the hood bits and pieces ongoing! - adding tagging. Tzviya added tool to GH to view diffs in text rendering

* Timeline update: June draft - goal is to have first draft to share with larger W3C by June 30, need to get Alex materials with enough time to incorporate materials

Measurability has a later deadline

- [Abstaining W3C group related issues](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/30)? - W3C has groups that deal with a11y, security, privacy. We don’t want to step on their toes or recreate their work. We want to make sure our SCs are not redundant. It might be better to follow the example in things like WCAG with “privacy considerations” “security considerations” which point to privacy/sec specs and highlight the guidelines that are relevant. Maybe we can point to WCAG, privacy etc and highlight which of our SCs are relevant.

Andrea: if we have too many points of reference, then this starts to look like an implementation of other specifications

Hidde: I’m in favor of having a specific section “accessibility considerations” that points to WCAG, but not a 1:1 mapping, happy to help write the section

Thorsten: there are a11y SCs in UX section as well. I will add them to the doc. There are very specific considerations for UX, and I would prefer to have reference to WCAG.

Ryan: There are security considerations for hosting/infrastructure as well

Alex: I flagged the ones that are explicitly covered by WCAG and others. We also have SCs that are not as explicit, but related.

Rose: I’m concerned about what the security/sustainability plan is. Should you hide WP admin log in? That comes under security, but in reality, it’s not a huge security issue - but it’s a bigger sustainability issue. So it’s more our remit.

Alex: The WCAG example is not removed, but there is a list of SCs that have privacy implications. We do have some that feel like they should be removed, though. If we are providing something on the sustainability angle, it’s fine.

Ryan: We can say that we won’t provide info about how to set up a cdn here, just the sustainability info.

Rose: RE:CDNs, there are legal/privacy issues in the EU that should be noted. Lawsuits in Germany regarding Google Fonts. (Self-hosting also allows other optimisations.)

Tzviya: We write for the long haul, not just for today. Stay in our WSG lane, narrow focus, link out. We will also have horizontal review (i18n, security, privacy, a11y) that will help with these aspects.

Ines: What about Web Perf? What do we do with something that crosses over in a negative way? Not all perf recommendations are sustainable.

Tzviya: Take Perf off the list. It’s not an underlying horizontal value of W3C. We can meet with WebPerf once we have our SCs more organized

Alex: someone suggested including a trade-offs section along with benefits (If you do implement this, you need to be aware of the following problems…) <https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/9> 

**Consensus:** We removing SCs that are completely covered by other specs with a “Considerations” section. We keep those that are more within the Sustainability story.

- Accessibility: 3.5 & 5.19 (SC2), _UX: 2.14, 2.20, 2.21 (but these UX criteria are all unique and should probably not be removed)_

- Privacy: 5.20

- Security: 3.16, 4.6 (SC4), 5.12 (SC5)

- WebPerf: too many to count!

* [Categories for Tagging / Filtering](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/14#issuecomment-2612676839)

  - Reuse Guideline Cats (A11y / Privacy / WebSec / HTML / CSS / JS / etc)

  - Job Title (UX / FE Dev / BE Dev / Infra / Biz / Product / …)

  - Planetary (Tags tied to sustainability targets? | GRI > Mineral / Water / etc.)

  - Standards (SDGs / RGESN / AFNOR / Any other tie-ins we have)

  - Other (Testable / Impact / Effort)

  - Any other filters / thoughts on filters?

Alex: we have pre-defined tags from some, such as testable, impact. Effort. We have relationships with a11y, privacy, etc. There are related Standards: AFNOR, SDGs, AWS, etc. Should we do job titles, planetary goals? I’ll share a spreadsheet for people to fill in first. See <https://www.w3.org/TR/privacy-principles/#principle-list> for tagging functionality in action.

Ines: When you used WSG, what was missing to help you find the proper guideline

- TF Breakouts

Other discussion/questions:

- Rose: Laurent and I discussed that there is nothing in WSG for users. Where does it go?

- Tzviya: education materials would be helpful, but it isn’t for WSG. Regular users won’t look at WSG

- Jen: write a doc in UX group, and we’ll find a home for it because people want to know what they can do

- Lukasz: Imagine we had a perfect way to measure impact of every guideline. How will consumers of WSG use them? 

- Adam: It would be specific to each guideline. It would be about amount of reduction, etc

- Ines: I’ll make this homework. We will discuss this in Slack

- Tzviya: a metric system would enable users to prioritize

- Alex: we could sort the doc using metrics and tagging so that the SCs with biggest impact and most relevance are at the top