---
title: Equipment Policy
doc_type: doc
doc_id: doc-674
last_edited_date: '2025-05-25'
last_edited_by: Ryan Laird
version: '1.0'
---

We ask all employees entrusted with products owned by Wholegrain, such as a laptop and mobile phone, to take good care of them at all times. This means using them responsibly, and storing and transporting them safely. Refer to our security guidelines for further advice.

# Requesting a New Equipment

If you are new to the team, don’t worry, most of the essential equipment that you need to start work should be order and delivered to you before your first day. If you need other equipment that were not included, please contact our HR team in your onboarding weeks.

For all Wholegrainers, if you would like to request a new equipment to help you work more comfortably please following the following steps:

Step 1: Please contact our HR team and let us know your need for the new equipment, if you have any specific reason for which equipment to purchase please provide the information as well.

Step 2: Please find the Equipment request form and fill in the details. If you have any question regards to the form please contact our HR team.

Step 3: Once the form is submitted, one of our directors will review it and if the request is approved, our HR team will inform you immediately with possible delivery information of the equipment.

Step 4: Once you received the equipment, please email our HR team to confirm. You will also need to fill in the equipment registration form, please fill in the details of the equipment and submit and form within one working day of receiving the equipment.

Step 5: Now our HR team received the registration form, this equipment will be officially your responsiblity. Please take good care of it and only use it for work-related matters.

# Report and Return a damaged/faulty/old equipment

If a equipment is damaged accidentally or found to be faulty, please report it immediately so we can arrange for a repair or replacement. This is especially important in the case of product faults, as a delay in dealing with the issue could void our ability to claim a repair or replacement under warranty.

Most of our laptops are recycled and refurbished. If a piece of equipment is reaching its life limit OR is too old to use effectively, please also report it immediately so we can arrange for a replacement for you.

You will also need to return the damaged/faulty/old equipment to either our HR team or one of our directors, if the equipment is faulty, we will need to ask you to return it immediately to be bale to claim a repair or a replacement under warranty.

Please following the following steps to report and return:

Step 1: Please contact our HR team and advise us the situation of our equipment, we will confirm whether it is damaged, or faulty or worn out.

Step 2: Please find the Equipment report and return form and fill in the details. If you have any question regards to the form please contact our HR team.

Step 3: Once the form is submitted, our HR team will contact your to confirm the details of returning, will advise you on how to prepare the old equipment, and inform you immediately with possible delivery information of a new equipment.

Step 4: Once you received the new equipment, please email our HR team to confirm. You will also need to fill in the equipment registration form, please fill in the details of the new equipment and submit and form within one working day of receiving the equipment. Our HR team will confirm the receipt of your previous equipment with you.

Step 5: Now our HR team received the registration form and your previous equipment, this new equipment will be officially your responsibility, please take good care of it and only use it for work-related matters.

# Return your equipment

If you are moving to the new chapter of your life and decide to leaving Wholegrain, please return your equipment on the last day. The steps for returning your equipment is simple and similar to the previous one:

Step 1: Please contact our HR team and advise us when and how would you like to return your equipment, our HR team will advise you the most convenient person or address for you to return the equipment

Step 2: Please find the Equipment report and return form and fill in the details. Please put N/A on the damage related questions.

Step 3: Once the form is submitted, our HR team will contact your to confirm the details of returning, will advise you on how to prepare the old equipment, and confirm with you the receipt of your previous equipment.
