# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-05-15

## Agenda https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/43

**Attendees:** Alexander Dawson (Editor), Łukasz Mastalerz, Thorsten Jonas, Hidde de Vries, Rose Newell, Chris Adams, Andrew Wright, Francesco Fullone, Kazuhito Kidachi, Adam Newman.

## Introductions & [Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/) 
- consent to record and share

## Questions/comments from the last meeting.
- **Alexander:** Any questions/comments?
- **Alexander:** We wanted to work on the various breakouts today but because various people are away there is not really enough of us to break into many groups. We could do status updates.
- **Chris:** Only 7 of us here, raise hands to see who is in what group.2 in business, 1 in performance (or was it measurement?), 2 in UX
- **Alex:** also hosting and infrastructure
- **Rose:** It looks like Ryan has been making progress on hosting based on Slack.
- **Alex:** Yes. Hidde has been making progress on the web dev repo, github.
- **Hidde:** Trying to see what happened in the past 2 weeks we were trying to cover. You’ve merged some things. Not sure what’s happened, been away myself.
- **Alex:** Not much in the last 2 weeks, been busy moving resources into an external document for easier management.
- **AleX:** UX is the group the chairs are most concerned about
- **Thorsten:** Catching up, been busy, will write comments. Trying to catch up in the coming days. When schedule frees there will be more time to make progress.
- **Rose:** Business - quite advanced, but Tim says trouble making progress.
- **Chris:** Accurate prognosis, been able to join meetings. 
- **Alex:** Only thing Mike brought up was that some overlap in business guidelines - could be condensed. Too broad. 
- **Chris:** We’ve discussed scoping recommendations so they are aimed at people with different degrees of authority - different things would be asked to different people. I am not sure how we rearrange based on status. It’s a challenge using these because I don’t get to make that decision.
- **Rose:** Need to ensure the Business and Product Management section links back to other sections, avoid generic advice, and generally promote a culture of enablement (across all authority levels).

## Task Force Breakouts (30m)
- Breakout docs
   - [WSG Updates 2025](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1k5pzPq2AtBeriymXyMOiuu6mrMhN_ZVb) - contains the specific task force docs
   - [WSG 2025 Updates: Business & Product Strategy Task Force](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vbJ5t7hosd_Gl9eL0CO3hb_buNzgtKXjs2v_hozP-d8/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.nox05a1520oa)

## Community + News:
- Who is planning to attend [TPAC 2025](https://www.w3.org/2025/11/TPAC/) 10-14 November, Kobe JP?
   - Alexander: Tzviya may be going, not sure about others
   - Hidde: I’m going, could represent us
   - Alexander: we could potentially run a breakout session
   - Rose: What is the procedure for outreach and talking about things we’ve not worked on ourselves?
   - Alexander: We've got a lot of info in the GitHub readme, we could produce more.
   - Rose: could be the same as “brand messaging house”. Want to speak more cohesively and consistently.
   - Hidde: What's a brand messaging house?
   - Rose: usually shaped like a pyramid, makes sure people speak the same way. Usually orgs with press departments produce these to make sure folks don’t miss the key points, so people stay “on brand” (example shared in chat).
   - Hidde, in chat: Had to go, would like to work on this with Rose.
- GSF: SCI for web workshop signup now available:
   - https://workshops.greensoftware.foundation/sci-web-workshop
   - (You will need to be in a GSF member organisation to take part, but it’s free to join as a non profit and there will be regular sharebacks from W3C member, and updates will be shared via that email list

## [Open issues](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues) ([Kanban](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/198))

- UX: [#54](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/54), [#64](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/64)
- Biz: [#61](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/61), [#62](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/62), [#63](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/63), [#65](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/65) (Mike)

## Major sections (Blockers & Updates)

- Reminder (Non-measurability) TF’s, [First Draft: 30 June](https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/?tab=readme-ov-file#schedule)!

## Other discussion/questions:

- Follow on notes as Adam Newman
   - There are two ways the guidelines are being written
   - We need to agree upon the interpretation and how to test an implementation in order to measure it. We must also consider the parameters we want to express.
- Lukas:
   - The different guidelines are likely to have different levels of impact depending on the kind of web application in use. Some web performance interventions will be more effective on a video streaming site, compared to a typical wikipedia page.
- C:
   - If one of the challenges with measurability is having confidence about how effective all the interventions are, can you at least have a subset of sample reference model web sites or web apps to test them against? There are datasets like the HTTP Archive which give us an idea of the most common sites and similar properties they have. Other research projects have taken a reference site, with reference traffic patterns to demonstrate the impact of different changes ([see the ecovisor paper](https://ar5iv.labs.arxiv.org/html/2210.04951), for looking into how different architectural changes that impact the carbon intensity common uses of servers), and the [Wagtail bakery GOLD repo for use with GMT](https://github.com/thegreenwebfoundation/bakerydemo-gold-benchmark/)
