# Sustainable Web IG Minutes 2025 2025-02-06

## Agenda https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-ig/issues/18

Attendees: Ines Akrap (Chair), Tim Frick (Chair), Mike Gifford (Chair), Alexander Dawson (Editor), Tzviya Siegman (W3C), Laurent Devernay Satyagraha, Andrea Davanzo, Łukasz Mastalerz, Kazuhito Kidachi, Hidde de Vries, Christian H Brown, Nahuai Badiola, Denis DIDIER, Nicola Bonotto, Francesco Fullone, Crystal Preston-Watson, Neil Clark, Sarah Zama


## Introductions & Code of Conduct
Consent to record meeting and share recording to email list.

## Open Issues:
<a href="https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/14#issuecomment-2629405813">Shift guideline descriptions > “additional content”.</a>
* The best approach to re-structure a guideline: shift vs extract vs discard
* Alex suggested a show/hide approach to keep everything in one place
* Andrea challenging sustainability aspect of such a large document: not everyone needs/wants all the descriptions and links
* Hidde WCAG experience: Normative vs non-normative approach
* Sarah suggesting to get input from users: usability vs. sustainability

<a href="https://github.com/w3c/sustainableweb-wsg/issues/14#issuecomment-2612676839">Better tagging system: label choices for SCs.</a>
* Expanding system for better search/filter: input from the group on categories
* Examples: 
	* <a href="https://sustainablewebdesign.org/guidelines/">sustainablewebdesign.org</a>
	* <a href="https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/?versions=2.2&currentsidebar=%23col_customize">filtered WCAG</a>

What challenges are task forces facing in making progress?
* WebDev: time to get feedback very long (Andrea)
	* Tzviya suggested alternatives: Github instead of Slack, having more alignment meetings
* Metrics: what are the questions we are trying to answer + how measurable are current guidelines (Lukasz)
	* Tzviya shared article: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.09645 
	* Suggestion to separate measurement by Internet layers (Tzviya)
	* Could the same model be applied to different guidelines (Lukasz)
	* Not possible to answer CO2 question for more than 15% of the guidelines (Lukasz)
	* Make sure to be transparent and open on the measuring models (Andrea)
	* Decide if metric is measurable or not as a first step and let users decide on the model to use (suggest some) (Nicola)
	* Recommendation, not strict definition (Neil)
	* Unclear if it makes sense to create similar groupings like A/AA/AAA like WCAG or groupings like estimation of emissions, UX information, so that there is data with score by category (Ines)
	* Andrea’s comments
	* Looking from an ESG perspective, we could potentially score from social and gov aspect as well. For A11y could refer to WCAG, and similar. If we are looking at different pathways, the filtering system could work well (tagging, roles, etc)

* Which task forces still need leads/co-leads/support? If any TFs need leads/co-leads or help arranging discussion on Slack. GitHub, Zoom, or any other form of communications reach out to Tim, Ines, Mike, Alex, or Tzviya


