---
title: AI-Powered Stage
description: "The AI-Powered Stage in the Data Science section is focused on providing applied AI capabilties to the GitLab product."
---

## Vision

Build diverse and global development teams in the Data Science section to support GitLab's vision on the application of AI in the DevOps cycle,
while maintaining [our values](/handbook/values/) and [unique way of working](/handbook/company/culture/all-remote/guide/).

## Mission

Drive results through iterative development as we add AI features with flexible ML Models capabilities into the product.
Our teams are data-driven, support [dogfooding](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/dogfooding/), and [collaboration](/handbook/values/#collaboration) within GitLab and the wider community.

## Duo

We are the driving force behind Duo, supporting features directly or through the empowerment of other teams. For a single source of truth of feature use-cases that we enable, [see this list](https://docs.gitlab.com/user/gitlab_duo/).

### AI Powered Operating Principles

[See here](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/ai-powered/-/wikis/home/operating_principles).

## Stage Meetings

Although we have a bias for asynchronous communication, synchronous meetings are necessary and should adhere to our [communication guidelines](/handbook/communication/#video-calls).

Some regular meetings that take place for all AI teams on the shared AI-Powered Stage Calendar (Calendar ID: c_n5pdr2i2i5bjhs8aopahcjtn84@group.calendar.google.com) are:

| Frequency | Meeting               | DRI         | Possible topics                 |
|-----------|-----------------------|-------------|---------------------------------|
| Monthly   | [AI Powered Monthly](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WrhJIMzSBkdpfpirxx10AwZyR7FYztyTXZcX3DhOUtE/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.tw90k29p2p43)            | Michelle Gill & Roger Woo     | Roadmap review, leadership feedback, stage-wide direction & strategy |
| Weekly    | AI Management Strategy and Alignment    | Michelle Gill, Jacki Bauer, Roger Woo   | AI Powered stage-wide / Duo strategy, execution, collaboration and decision making |

## UX

### UX Triage

The UX team will review and triage issues to determine the appropriate level of UX support.  

When creating a new issue, add the `UX Triage` label if there is a change that impacts the user experience, or if for any other reason you would like it to be reviewed by the UX team.
The UX team reviews this list each week. If UX involvement is recommended, we will add the following labels to indicate the priority:

- `UX Priority::1`: UX involvement is highly recommended due to design complexity and high impact to users and/or the business.
- `UX Priority::2`: UX involvement is recommended due to moderate complexity and impact to users and/or the business.
- `UX Priority::3`: UX involvement is recommended, time permitting. This is for issues where a designers input will improve the experience or the clarity of the solution, but the risk of a negative impact to users and the business is low.

These labels do not block engineering from proceeding to work on the issue if they decide that delivery speed is more crucial to the business than UX quality.

In addition to UX Priority labels, the UX team will comment on the issue with an assessment of effort/time required so that engineering can make a decision about whether to proceed with or without UX input.

## Stage Groups
