---
title: "Stategy & Legal Operations"
---

The Strategy & Legal Ops team promotes and institutes streamlined processes, efficient tools, and centralized program management to ensure LACA remains agile and able to support every area of GitLab’s business.

Check out [our issue board](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-com/-/boards/9214591) to learn more about what we’re working on.

### Objectives

1. **Strategic Planning and Financials:** Build, execute, and iterate on a best-in-class strategic plan, including management of LACA’s budget from planning through forecasting and reporting. 
2. **Legal Operations:** Optimize LACA operations through tools, processes, and operational capabilities. Drive enhancements to the [LACA tech stack](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nLtWVx6mebR7_y2Qv_CcScbVW-ryLVzvcFVgGk2yeRs/edit?gid=686289913#gid=686289913).  
3. **Program and Project Management:** Define and drive initiatives spanning across LACA and GitLab. Examples include: vendor management, [billing and accruals](/handbook/legal/legalops/#legal-billing-process), [designated insiders and pre-clearance process](/handbook/legal/publiccompanyresources/#designated-insiders), tool administration, and team member engagement activities.

## Legal Billing Process

GitLab uses Brightflag’s Legal Spend Management platform to process and review legal invoices and accruals.

See the [Brightflag invoicing process](https://internal.gitlab.com/handbook/legal-and-corporate-affairs/#brightflag-invoicing-process) in the internal handbook.

### Accruals Process

Accruals submission reminder notifications are automatically sent through Brightflag to ensure vendors submit their accruals on time.
  
- Law firms with active matters will receive two automated reminder emails at 06:15 UTC on the following days:
  - **First Reminder**: Five calendar days before the deadline.
  - **Final Reminder**: On the day of the deadline.
- If the deadline falls on a weekend, the email will be sent on that weekend day.
- If accruals are submitted on all matters before the deadline for a given vendor office, the notification emails will not be sent to that vendor.

## Legal & Corporate Affairs Expenditure Request Process

This process is designed to enable LACA team members to submit requests related to attending events/conferences, furthering development, or purchasing tools/software funded by LACA. This process does not apply to [equipment](/handbook/finance/expenses/#equipment), [Individual Use Software](/handbook/finance/procurement/individual-use-software/) or other personal reimbursement requests.

- All expenses / reimbursements must be in accordance with [GitLab's Travel & Expense Policy](/handbook/finance/expenses/).
- All requests for use of LACA funds require approval from applicable stakeholders within the LACA Expenditure Request Issue Template.
- Requests must be submitted, (i) no less than ninety (90) days prior to the event/purchase request date, and (ii) no more than once per year.
- For conferences or development requests, team members are expected to share materials and insight with others within LACA (and GitLab).

### Types of Expenditures

- Growth & Development: Team members can review the [Growth & Development Fund](/handbook/people-group/learning-and-development/growth-and-development/) and  various options available to GitLab team members._Note: The program would not cover costs associated with travel & expenses, which would be allocated to the LACA budget._
- Tools / Software: For requests related to new tools or software, a LACA Expenditure Request Issue Template is required.

### Expenditure Process Overview

- LACA team members must first communicate their intended request with their manager.
- If supported by their manager, the team member will complete the ["laca-travel-and-expense-request" template](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/legal-and-compliance/-/issues/new?issuable_template=laca-travel-and-expense-request#).
- Included within the LACA Expenditure Request Issue Template are details that the team member must complete.
- Upon being submitted, the request will be reviewed internally by LACA leadership.
- If approved, the request will then be assigned to Finance to ensure applicable funds are available.
- Requests are considered fully approved only when all stakeholder checkboxes have been completed. Please note, all expenses tied to the request must be submitted in accordance with [GitLab's Travel & Expense Policy](/handbook/finance/expenses/).
