---
title: Legal & Corporate Affairs ("LACA")
---

## Our Mission

We leverage our versatile skill sets to drive positive outcomes for GitLab and our customers. Approachable and collaborative, LACA team members are trusted thought partners to our colleagues across GitLab, and facilitate efficient and informed decision making in all areas of the business.

**In short: LACA – We’re your one phone call.**

## Legal & Corporate Affairs Functional Groups

### Commercial

The GitLab Legal [Commercial](/handbook/legal/commercial/) team is responsible for all contracting matters at GitLab, including procurement, revenue, channel, technical, and alliances, while partnering with sales, technical, and business stakeholders to ensure alignment with GitLab contracting standards and efficient execution timelines. The team supports GitLab's go-to-market and procurement functions, providing knowledge and creativity in advising on contractual and regulatory matters to facilitate customer-centric results in accordance with the Company's values.

Helpful links:

- [Sales Guide | Collaborating with GitLab Legal](/handbook/legal/customer-negotiations/)
- [Commercial Legal Internal Handbook](https://internal.gitlab.com/handbook/legal-and-corporate-affairs/legal-commercial/index.html/)
- [Highspot - GitLab Legal Hub](https://gitlab.highspot.com/items/64d69e83c17499125edb7063?lfrm=srp.0)

### Corporate & Compliance

The [Corporate & Compliance](/handbook/legal/publiccompanyresources/) group drives strategic results for GitLab via cross-functional relationships to support a climate of principled corporate governance and the company’s culture of compliance.

### Corporate Development

The [Corporate Development](/handbook/acquisitions/) group conducts diligent and thorough analysis to strategically identify, evaluate and execute potential acquisitions to accelerate the product roadmap and advance the company’s competitive position in the market.

### Employment

The Legal [Employment](/handbook/legal/employment-law/) team serves as a strategic partner across the organization, providing expert guidance and proactive legal solutions throughout the entire team member lifecycle.

### Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG)

The [ESG](/handbook/legal/esg/) group works cross-functionally to integrate ESG considerations, ESG regulatory compliance, and responsible business practices as part of GitLab’s overarching mission to make our customers successful.

### Privacy, Product, and Intellectual Property

The [Privacy](/handbook/legal/privacy/) and [Product and Intellectual Property](/handbook/legal/product/) group enables fast-paced product development within applicable regulatory confines; privacy solutions so customers can confidently co-create in those products; and robust protection of Company IP.

### Risk Management and Dispute Resolution

The [Risk Management and Dispute Resolution](/handbook/legal/risk-management-dispute-resolution/) group directs GitLab’s unified, transparent and ethical approach to defending company interests while resolving disputes should they arise.

### Strategy and Legal Operations

The [Strategy and Legal Operations](/handbook/legal/legalops/) group promotes continued process improvement such that LACA may be efficient and effective in its performance, including procurement of the most suitable tools and technology.

## How to Reach Us

For quick questions that **do not** require legal advice, deliverables, or any discussion of confidential information, you can reach out to LACA in Slack at [#legal](https://gitlab.slack.com/archives/legal). We find this channel best for questions about process, who handles what, or how to find certain things if the handbook has not yielded the right result for you after searching. #legal is not a private channel, so your inquiry will be visible to the entire company. One of our team members will do their best to answer your question in a timely fashion.

Most questions regarding specific customers require a legal case in Salesforce. Follow the process [here](/handbook/legal/customer-negotiations/#how-to-reach-the-legal-commercial-team) to open one.

For other questions related to deliverables and non-sensitive information, create an issue in the [Legal and Compliance project](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/legal-and-compliance/-/issues). Be sure to use the template most suited to your request to engage the right team members.

For sensitive, private, or confidential matters, email [legal_internal@gitlab.com](mailto:legal_internal@gitlab.com).

## Anonymous Internal Ethics and Compliance Reporting

We take employee concerns very seriously and encourage all GitLab team members to report any ethics and/or compliance violations by using [EthicsPoint](https://secure.ethicspoint.com/domain/media/en/gui/74686/index.html). Further details can be found in the [People Group Handbook](/handbook/people-group/) under [How to Report Violations](/handbook/people-group/#how-to-report-violations) and in our [Code of Business Conduct and Ethics](/handbook/legal/gitlab-code-of-business-conduct-and-ethics/).

## GitLab Policies

See [GitLab’s Ethics and Compliance Program](/handbook/legal/ethics-compliance-program/#compliance-standards-guidelines--other-resources) for a list of policies, compliance standards, guidelines, and other resources.

## Authorization Matrix

The [Authorization Matrix](https://internal.gitlab.com/handbook/company/authorization-matrix/) designates who is authorized to sign legal documents. Only GitLab team members with signature authority can execute agreements on behalf of GitLab.

## Non-Disclosure Agreements

Follow the [non-disclosure agreement process](/handbook/legal/nda/) to learn how to send an NDA (note there’s a separate process for [non-standard NDAs](/handbook/legal/nda/#non-standard-nda-requests)).

## NAVEX Compliance Courses

For information about compliance training, including new hire requirements, and tips for using the NAVEXEngage platform, see [here](/handbook/legal/legalops/navex/).

## Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Requests

{{% details summary="What is a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request?" %}}
The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) provides public access to all United States federal agency records except for those records (or portions of those records) that are protected from disclosure by any of [nine exemptions or three exclusions](https://www.dhs.gov/foia-exemptions) (reasons for which an agency may withhold records from a requester). Occasionally the records of a federal agency under a FOIA request may include GitLab records in the possession of the agency (i.e., when the agency is a customer of GitLab). In such an event, the federal agency will notify GitLab of the FOIA request and provide GitLab with the documents that the federal agency intends to release in response to the FOIA request. A GitLab legal team member will review the list and content of the documents identified by the federal agency pursuant to the FOIA request and will provide the appropriate response and/or make redactions to those documents, as necessary, prior to their release.

In the event you receive a notification from a US federal agency pursuant to a FOIA request, indicating that GitLab documents or information have been identified for release by an agency, please immediately forward the request to <FOIA@gitlab.com>.
<!-- vale handbook.Repetition = YES -->
<style>
    details > details {
        margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    }
</style>
{{% /details %}}
