---
title: Laptop Procurement for New Team Members
---

## Overview

The laptop ordering process for new hires starts once the initial welcome email is sent by the Candidate Experience Specialist. The email will include a link to place a request for a GitLab issued laptop. Please fill out the form as soon as possible to avoid delays.

After the new hire fills out the form, they can expect their laptop to arrive the week before their start date. We leverage business relationships with several vendors across the globe to accomplish this remotely. **Please note delivery times will vary depending on location, hardware supply, vendor selection, and shipping method.**

In some instances, we may be able to work out priority or overnight delivery. We will not be able to service this for all cases and regions. If this is needed please reach out to `laptops@gitlab.com` or talk with your hiring manager to review all options available.

If you are a hiring manager or member of the hiring/recruiting team, you may check the status and content of a new hires order in the [IT Equipment Order Process Project](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/it/end-user-services/issues/it-equipment-order-processing/-/issues/?sort=created_date&state=all&first_page_size=100)

Minimum processing time for laptop orders before shipping. Some countries may take longer due to required documentation for delivery.

* US/Canada New Hires - 2 weeks (Apple) and 5 weeks (Linux)
* EMEA/APAC New Hires - 2 weeks (Apple) and 5 weeks (Linux)
* Other Regions - 3 weeks (Apple) and 9 weeks (Linux)

Please review the [Macbook Model Eligibility](/handbook/security/corporate/services/laptops/hardware#macbook-model-eligibility) to choose the appropriate model.

> **Important:** If your job title includes the word `Engineer` and your team is not approved for a performance model, it may be an oversight or typo. Please email your Candidate Experience Specialist before submitting the order form to confirm whether you can order the performance model.

Team members that live in these countries can be serviced via the Laptop Ordering Process:

USA, Canada, Mexico, all of the EU, Thailand, China, Japan, Philippines, Singapore, Australia, New Zealand, India, Israel and the UK.

We are adding supported countries to this list as we discover our ability to order in them.

We currently cannot procure laptops for Brazil, Costa Rica, Chile, Armenia, or Ukraine. If your country is not listed above or for any general laptop procurement questions please contact `laptops@gitlab.com` or your Candidate Experience Specialist to discuss alternate options.
If the team member requires financial assistance to purchase the hardware, the Company can advance the funds to help facilitate the purchase (see Self Procurement below).

Should a laptop not be available to a new GitLab team member upon their start date, it is permissable for a team member to temporarily use a personal macOS or Linux laptop.

If in the rare case your laptop arrives damaged or unusable prior to your start date, please reach out to your Candidate Experience Specialist and CC [laptops@gitlab.com](mailto:laptops@gitlab.com) for next steps on an immediate replacement or repair.

**Warning: fake job scams**: Scammers may impersonate GitLab and target job seekers. GitLab will never ask new hires to send us funds for equipment purchases.

Read the ["What to know about a fake job scam impersonating GitLab"](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2023/06/29/fake-gitlab-job-scam/) blog post to learn the warning signs and how to protect yourself.

### Self procurement

**Cost will not be covered by GitLab without proper approval**

IT approval is required for self procurement of laptops. Self procurement is only available if you are in a region where we are not able to have a laptop delivered. If the team member desires financial assistance to purchase the hardware, GitLab can advance the funds to help facilitate the purchase. See the handbook page for [Temporary Advances](/handbook/finance/expenses/#team-member-expense-temporary-advances). GitLab may request that you obtain two quotes from local retailers (online or physical) and include the quotes within the correspondence.

IT must verify the laptop specs and cost before approval is given. The AP team will verify approval in order to release funds.

If you are unable to complete any of the steps above, you may request a Laptop Exception using this [template](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/gl-security/security-assurance/security-risk-team/third-party-vendor-security-management/-/blob/master/.gitlab/issue_templates/Laptop%20Exception%20Request). These requests require approval from leadership across multiple departments and are discouraged due to the possibility of data leakage.
