---
title: "Git Team"
---

## Mission statement

The Git team is responsible for building, maintaining and providing expertise on
the Git version control system. Its main responsibilities include:

- Upstream development of the Git version control system.
- Provide expertise to other teams at GitLab.
- Foster the Git community.
- Ensure the long-term viability of the Git project.

### Upstream development

The Git team is responsible for driving the upstream development of Git both in
accordance with the goals of the community and to address GitLab-specific needs
as raised by other teams. This falls into the following broad categories:

- Implementation of new features in the form of new tooling as required by use
cases at GitLab.
- Scalability improvements in the form of optimizations and new data formats.
- Improvements to the usability of Git so that it remains the first choice for
  developers.
- Maintenance of the Git codebase.

### Provide expertise

The Git version control system is at the core of what GitLab is doing and is
thus of critical importance to many teams across GitLab. This doesn't only
include teams part of the Engineering division, but also spans across other
divisions like for example Support. The Git team is the main contact point for
such teams and provides expertise on how to use Git effectively and efficiently.
It will provide insights into following non-exhaustive list of topics:

- How can a certain use case be implemented with Git?
- How to improve performance of certain workloads?
- How to expose certain features of Git to customers?
- What is happening in the Git community and what is the direction the project
  heads into?
- Which Git related workflows and practices should be encouraged among Git
  users?

### Foster the Git community

GitLab relies on the Git community to be healthy. It is our belief that a
healthy community is a community with diverse view points, including those views
held by our direct competitors active in the same community. The Git team will
help foster and grow the Git community:

- Ensure an influx of new contributors via mentorship programs like Google
  Summer of Code or Outreachy.
- Improve Git documentation and materials for new contributors.
- Attend or host community-oriented events like user groups or Git Merge.
- Help out community members by providing guidance and doing reviews.
- Spread information in the form of for example blog posts or Git Rev News.

### Long-term viability

The Git project has been growing organically for almost two decades at the point
of writing. It has thus accumulated a lot of debt in different forms that need
to be addressed in one form or another to ensure that the project itself remains
viable in the long term. This includes topics like:

- Maintenance and refactorings of the Git codebase to reduce technical debt.
- Modernization of parts of the tech stack.
- Improvements to the usability of Git.
- Deprecations and removal of features.

## Roadmap

Please see the public [product direction for Gitaly](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/git/).

The current roadmap is [this epic board](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epic_boards/2065518?label_name[]=Roadmap&label_name[]=group%3A%3Agit).

## Team

[Responsibilities](/job-families/engineering/backend-engineer/#git) |
[In the product hierarchy](/handbook/product/categories/#git-group)

{{< team -by-departments "Git\\\"\\\" \\\"Team\\\" " " \\\"/\\\"" "/" >}}

## How to contact the team

We are happy to help when other teams or customers need it. But please keep in
mind that we are primarily a _development_ team, not equipped for "field
engineering".

Our _engineers_ can help, preferably
[asyncchronously](/handbook/company/culture/all-remote/asynchronous/), with deep
technical investigation based on Git-specific use cases and data and able
technical collaboration, in close partnership with Support, CSM and direct users
of Git like Gitaly.

_Engineering Managers_ (`@pks-gitlab`) and _Product Managers_ (`@mjwood`) are
also happy to engage with customers if you need assistance clarifying roadmaps,
features and timelines, or to ensure the correct prioritization.

We are not a good fit however if you need:

- Guidance on how Git is used by other teams. While we can provide the expertise
  on _how_ to integrate it, the _actual_ integration is outside of our reach.
- Advice on workflows and instance configuration or architecture in self-hosted
  scenarios. ([Reference Architectures](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/reference_architectures/)
  and Professional Services can help)
- Engagements without clear exit criteria. Please clarify them first, "let's
  jump on a call to discuss" is usually in this category.
- Long-term "advise us" scenarios. Please refer to Support and the
  documentation, or engage Professional Services.

### Git Office Hours

The team regularly hosts GitLab-internal
[Git Office Hours](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mOFqF-SwKQc-EuJPyL3xj7xNmqpm9zDnJAnKXMUKmEs/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.foc0amy34klq).
The event is part of the Gitaly team calender, is announced in due time and
typically happens on Wednesday at 2:30pm UTC.

These office hours are mostly used to discuss upstream development in the Git
team, but we also encourage other people not part of that team to join in case
they want to learn about what is going on in the Git community.

This venue can be used to ask for guidance on specific issues:

- Ask for feedback and guidance on how to integrate Git into the product.
- Discuss interesting edge cases as hit e.g. by our customers.
- Provide feedback on Git features.

Note that this is not intended as a general support forum for how to use Git on
a day-to-day basis. A better channel to ask such questions would be
[#git-help](https://gitlab.slack.com/archives/git-help).

Please feel free to chime in and add your topic to the agenda linked above.

### Bugs, features, performance

To get Git team work on something, it's best to create an issue on the
GitLab-specific [Git issue tracker](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/git/issues)
and add the `group::git` and `workflow::problem validation` labels, along with
any other appropriate labels. Then, feel free to tag the relevant Product
Manager and/or Engineering Manager as listed above.

For information requests and other quick one-offs, feel free to use
[#g_git](https://gitlab.slack.com/archives/g_git) on Slack to get attention on
the issue.

### Urgent issues and outages

If you're not part of the Support organization, please consider seeking help from them first -- Support has better availability and can help in most common cases.

If you still need help, please file an issue [here](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/git/-/issues/new). Post it on [#g_git](https://gitlab.slack.com/archives/g_git) for more immediate visibility and tag EM and PM, and the Support person you're working with.

### On-call rotation

Members of the Git team participate in Gitaly on-call rotation. For more details, see [the team page](../gitaly#on-call-rotation).

## Workflow in upstream Git

Because the Git project is an upstream project, we must use a different workflow.

### Planning

The Git project has a different release schedule where a new release is published roughly every three months. The
schedule can be seen in the [Git project's calendar](http://tinyurl.com/gitcal). Furthermore, it is expected that most
topics will take significantly longer both to develop and to be merged upstream. As a consequence, our usual milestones
are not a good mechanism to properly track the target GitLab version in the context of upstream issues.

Instead, we use labels like `git-milestone::v2.42` to annotate our target Git version for open issues as well as the
actual version something has landed in for completed issues. These milestone labels are applied in addition to our
normal milestones.

This means that we assign milestones as a timeframe to schedule the implementation of the work by the Gitaly team
members, but this does not correspond to the timeframe when the work will be released by the Git project. Their meaning
is reduced to a planning tool such that Git issues continue to show up on usual issue boards and are readily
discoverable. Consequentially, our usual way of picking up new work applies to Git issues, as well.

### Differences to normal review process

When working with the upstream Git Project, we still use a simple workflow where the developer implements the issue in a
topic branch, creates a merge request, and assigns reviewers as usual, where issues and merge requests should be created
in our [mirror of the Git project](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/git). However, because the changes must undergo
upstream review, the workflow diverges from our normal workflow

- Changes may optionally undergo internal review.
- After the optional internal review, patches are sent to the Git mailing list.

The meaning of the merge requests thus gets reduced to be purely informational.

Developers are encouraged to skip the optional internal review and instead send their patches to the mailing list
directly. In that case, they should add a comment to the merge request that links to the mailing list thread on
<https://public-inbox.org/git/>. The review should then happen on the mailing list directly.

Encouraging developers to send patches to the mailing list directly has multiple benefits:

- Reviewers get exposure to the Git mailing list. This demonstrates to the wider Git community there is a whole team
  working on Git at GitLab while also building up credibility for the reviewer.
- Topics which may otherwise not get a lot of attention may get more when our own reviews are visible.
- We avoid having to do two sequential reviews, which would otherwise further delay topics.

The optional internal review is specifically with new internal contributors in mind. It should help to lower the bar for
entry and reduce the level of discomfort that wider exposure to the Git community may bring with it. In the same spirit,
reviewers may post review comments internally first before sending them to the Git mailing list. Ultimately, the goal
should be that we mentor these new contributors internally such that they eventually start to post to the Git mailing
list directly.

The following is a non-exhaustive list of exceptions where we prefer internal reviews:

- Security issues are implemented in our [private security mirror](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/security/git).
- Potentially controversial topics where we need to assess whether a proposed solution addresses our own usecases.

### Long-running topics

In some contexts it may be necessary to collaborate on long-running topics when it is infeasible to land changes in a
single release. Our usual iterative development approach does not always work well within the Git project. Most
importantly, for an open source project the assumption needs to be that contributors may go away in the middle of their
endeavour, leaving behind dangling pieces that might have complicated some of our architecture without actually reaping
the intended benefits. In contrast to company-led projects, the Git project has no way of ensuring that these would
eventually get finished.

For topics that span over multiple releases we are forced to use long-running feature branches until the topic becomes
upstreamable. The workflow here is thus different to normal upstream work and happens on a separate topic branch that
the developer creates from the current upstream `master` branch. From here on, the development of the topic happens
internally and follows our usual merge request workflow including internal reviews, where each of the merge requests
targets the topic branch.

One problem in this context is that the topic branch will eventually start to become outdated when the upstream `master`
branch progresses. While it would be possible to regularly merge from `master` into the topic branch, the end result
would not be in an upstreamable state. On the other hand, rebasing the topic branch on top of `master` would require
other contributors to adapt to the resulting forced update.

Instead, we use a combination of rebases and merges to update the topic branch with upstream's `master` branch:

1. The topic branch is fake-merged into the `master` branch, discarding all changes. The resulting tree is the same tree
   as the tree of `master`.
1. All commits of the topic branch are rebased on top of the fake merge.
1. Optionally, the rebased commits are squashed or reorganized so that the result becomes upstreamable.

While complicated, this workflow provides a bunch of benefits:

- We never need to force-update the topic branch.
- The topic branch remains in an upstreamable state.
- The history of the topic branch remains intact, which also means that individual contributions remain intact even if
  they are squashed into other commits.

This workflow is similar to what Git for Windows uses and can be implemented via its
[shears.sh](https://github.com/git-for-windows/build-extra/blob/5b12303a092b159a22a2640d7b8aee84715091de/shears.sh)
script:

```shell
## Update origin, pulling in new changes for origin/master
$ git fetch origin
## Switch to the topic branch
$ git switch topic
## Find the current root of the topic branch. This could either be the last fake-merge
$ base=$(git rev-parse ':/Start the merging-rebase')
## Or it could be the merge-base of origin/master and your topic branch
$ base=$(git merge-base origin/master topic)
## Rebase the topic branch onto origin/master
$ ./shears.sh --merging --onto origin/master $base
```
