---
title: Readiness Team
description: Everything you wanted to know about the Readiness sub-department
canonical_path: "/handbook/support/readiness/"
---

## Purpose

The purpose of Support Readiness is to enable GitLab to provide delightful customer experiences by:

- equipping the Customer Support team with knowledge, tools and data to optimize productivity and efficiently solve customer problems.
- equipping our customers and wider GitLab with the data, knowledge and insights to prevent customer problems before they occur.
- delivering delightful experiences to both our own internal and external customers.

*Our purpose statement is re-evaluated as needed, at minimum every 3 years*

## Support Readiness FY25 Direction

The FY25 Direction for Support Readiness should support and substantiate the overall [Support Direction](/handbook/support/#fy25-direction). To that end, in FY25 we will:

### Improve our ability to achieve results for customers

- Update and refine issue triage, prioritization and work assignment processes.
- Create sub-department and role-based performance indicators.
- Simplify and refine customer and support engineer experiences using Zendesk.

### Team structure and how it supports our ability to achieve results

- Refine team structure and team member roles; check-in with team members to make sure they're in a place where they can contribute best and have appropriate responsibilities to facilitate team results.
- Make strategic hires to help better achieve our purpose and advance us in our direction.

### Team culture and how it supports our ability to achieve results

- Run a SWOT analysis and use its output to form purpose and direction statements.
- Share knowledge, document and train on operationally critical issues to ensure business continuity.

### Delight our customers

- Foster a customer-centric mindset that prioritizes empathy and proactive support.
- Survey the Support team and take action based on the findings.

*Our direction is re-evaluated annually, following the completion of the [Support Direction](/handbook/support/#fy25-direction)*

## Hiring Plan

Currently, Support Operations is using a ratios for our hiring plan. The ratios
used are:

- 40 Support Engineers to every 1 Support Operations Specialist
- 10 Support Operations Specialists to every 1 Support Operations Manager

## Support Readiness Links

- [Readiness Subgroup](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/support/readiness)
