---
title: "High Velocity Sales and First Orders Team at GitLab"
description: "The High Velocity Sales and First Orders is responsible for delivering a cohesive GTM that enables customers and prospects to self-serve: from discovery and adoption, purchasing, expanding, and managing their GitLab subscription"
---

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/stylesheets/biztech.css" />

## Welcome to the High Velocity Sales and First Orders Handbook

{{< alert color=success >}}
The High Velocity Sales and First Orders Team is responsible for delivering a cohesive go-to-market (GTM) that enables customers and prospects to self-serve: from discovery and adoption, purchasing, expanding, and managing their GitLab subscription.
{{< /alert >}}

## High Velocity Sales and First Orders Vision

GitLab engages with customers on their terms, offering seamless self-service options.  We deliver a best in class self-service experience for discovering & adopting GitLab, purchasing, expanding and managing your GitLab subscription.

We are easy to do business with. Our customers get time back to do what matters most - use GitLab to build the best software possible. And our customer-facing teams get time back to focus on higher value customer interactions, allowing us to accelerate and scale our growth.

We are a showcase of GitLab's culture. Interacting with us is flexible, asynchronous enabled and transparent.

## Our Strategy

**This section contains forward-looking content and may not accurately reflect current-state or planned feature sets or capabilities.**

1. Accelerate ARR

   - **Align AEs to highest ARR uplift**: Adjust go-to-market and incentives to focus AEs on highest value interactions for the customer.  Enhance self-service options for simple, fast interactions and build customer awareness.
   - **Discover new customer insights**: Buying cycles are changing, a large majority start before an AE engages.  Allow self discovery and monitor through product analytics to create (very) qualified leads.
   - **Become a tool for direct sales**: GitLab operates in a self-service hybrid model.  Provide customer visibility to AEs to enhance their selling conversations.
   - **Align our self-service GTM motion**: Work jointly across Sales, Product, Marketing, Customer Success & Channels to create definition of success, leverage best technology, build a joint roadmap and deliver best experience.

2. Deliver a best-in-class Self-Service experience

   - **Understand our customers**: Use product analytics and customer conversations to understand personas & buying journeys by segment.  Define ideal seamless omnichannel experience for our customers.
   - **"Always on" customer feedback**:  Collect and summarize customer feedback into a single view.  Quantify feedback to prioritize product & go-to-market changes. (e.g., Top 5 requested self-service feature based on customer survey)
   - **Flexible self-service engagement models**: Introduce chat for on-demand support that customers can access in-context.  While also creating rich feedback for our product and go-to-market teams.
   - **Product & Data Analytics**: Without human interaction, product analytics will be our window into customer interactions.  It is foundational to self-service.  It will influence the product roadmap, drive interactions and identify issues.

3. Improve go-to-market efficiency, accelerate growth

   - **Self-Service go-to-market models**: Introduce a self-service segment.  Leverage an inbound 'on-demand' account team to help customers and feed our backlog.  Grow the self-service channel full stack.
   - **Self-Service marketing campaigns**: Leverage self-service product analytics to drive high performing marketing campaigns based on specific customer insights. (e.g., abandoned cart campaigns, personalized marketing automation, featured products)
   - **Increase Rep productivity**: Increase self-service adoption in territory.  Minimizing time spent on account management, operational tasks and simple transactions. Introduce new customer engagement models to connect with sales. (e.g., hand raise for sales conversation, schedule a time with a sales rep)

## Success Metrics

- First Orders: inclusive of web First Orders
- SMB nARR

## Team and Working With Us

In the table below, you can find the HVS team leads who report into Allie Marconi and their associated scopes.

|  **Name** | **GitLab Handle** | **Team Name** | **Team Scope** |
| :--------------- | :----------------- | ----------------- |----------------- |
| Kazem Kutob | @kkutob | Global SMB & New Logo Sales Team | The Global SMB team owns customer and prospects relationships globally of companies sized 0-250 employees. The New Logo team owns "base prospects" with a goal of delivering First Orders. |
| Alex Martin | @alex_martin | Product GTM | Partners to co-author and deliver a product roadmap for customer outcomes.  We will orient the backlog and measure feature success based on customer value, first order count & bookings growth.  We will partner with product to ensure product features and releases are launched at high quality with a distribution plan delivering customer value. |
| Max Fliesher | @mfleisher | Data & Operations | Supports the broader HVS team given an emphasis on high velocity, data drives our strategy. Owns the end to end operational model to enable coverage with a ~1,500 customer : SMB Advocate Ratio. Owns Renewals Teams and NLT ops especially where there’s crossover with SMB. Responsible for the launch, enablement and  performance evaluation of cases. |
| Mitchell Hanks | @mhanks | Monetization & Startups | Responsible for the activating of our Free & Trial customers by targeting CE/EE and trial conversion in the "Base Account" population. Additionally responsible for the Startup Program, which enables seed and early state startup companies to get started and grow with GitLab. |

## Resources & Communications

- **Slack Channel**: `#hvs`
- Create an issue in the [HVS project](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/sales-team/hvs)
