---
title: "Brand Video"
description: "GitLab Brand Creative - Brand Video Handbook"
---

### What We Do

We create compelling video content that amplifies brand awareness, educates our audiences, announces releases, and supports company-wide initiatives. Brand video is within the Brand Creative team and we specialize in video production—bringing storytelling, creativity, and design to life in every project. Our goal is to embody GitLab’s brand and purpose in every frame, ensuring consistency, clarity, and impact. Whether it’s a simple webinar or a large-scale product announcement, we approach every opportunity with intention, elevating the message through thoughtful and engaging visuals. We are committed to ensuring each video reflects the same excellence, innovation, and clarity that GitLab delivers.

### Team - Who We Are

- Joanna Cyprys - Sr Manager, Video
- Dale Harper - Video Producer

### How We Work 

If you need a video—whether it's an edit to an existing asset, help with a recording (on location or remote), or with a new video from concept to completion—please use one of our issue templates below. Each template includes guided prompts to help you outline the essential information, ensuring we have everything needed to bring your vision to life efficiently.

Once submitted, our Brand Video team will review your request, assign a Producer, and develop a clear action plan to move your project forward. 

## Requesting Support

### Submit video requests using one of these templates

- [New Video Request](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/brand-product-marketing/brand-product-marketing/brand-video/-/issues/new?issuable_template=new-video-request) – For full video production projects.
- [Video Edit Request](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/brand-product-marketing/brand-product-marketing/brand-video/-/issues/new?issuable_template=video-editing-request#) – For modifications to existing videos or edit-only support.
- [Upload Request](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/brand-product-marketing/brand-product-marketing/brand-video/-/issues/new?issuable_template=upload-request#) – For adding videos to YouTube or Vimeo.
You can view all the Brand Creative team requests templates here. Don’t see a template here that reflects your request? Just use a blank issue within brand video and assign to Joanna Cyprys. 

### Project Timeline Expectations 

- **New Video Production:** ~8-12 weeks (from planning to end deliverable). `NOTE:` Faster timelines can be accommodated based on priority
- **Edit Requests:** 1-4 weeks
- **Upload Requests:** 48 hours

If you have a pressing need or you are unsure of what is required for the video project, do not hesitate to reach out to the Brand Video Slack channel `#brand_video`.

## Resources 

### Video Hosting 

[YouTube](/handbook/marketing/marketing-operations/youtube/) 

- **Brand YouTube channel** features polished, high-quality videos that showcase our products, exciting announcements, customer stories, and thought leadership—designed for broad reach, impact and brand storytelling. These often include motion graphics and feature a high production value. All videos added to this channel need to be approved by the Brand Video Team. 
- **Unfiltered** is not managed by the Brand Video Team and  is used by GitLab Team Members to upload content intended for team and community members, including (but not limited to) team meetings, discussions, monthly release kick-offs, office hours, CEO 101 meetings, and casual demos.

[Vimeo](/handbook/marketing/marketing-operations/vimeo/#about-vimeo)

- Used for videos embedded in webpages, ebooks and emails and anywhere you are able to embed content. Vimeo can also be used to create videos using the video creation tools which allow you to record and edit. You can open an access request to request access to this tool. 

### Virtual Recordings 

- **Riverside:** We use Riverside to capture high quality video recordings direct to your device for webinars, interviews, testimonials or hosted content. This platform allows the host of the recording to manipulate the camera and microphone settings for best results. Think of it as a virtual studio. 
- **Zoom:** Zoom is an excellent resource to use when recording important meetings or if you need to capture webinar footage quickly. Zoom recording quality can be affected by each participant's internet speed and computer/device performance. Zoom records the footage directly to the cloud so lag or audio drift can occur. For best results with Zoom, [review the zoom record settings](/handbook/tools-and-tips/zoom/#recording-zoom-meetings-in-hd) when recording using zoom. 
- **Quicktime:** QuickTime is a great option for recording yourself or capturing your screen, especially for simple, high-quality recordings without the need for an internet connection. It's built into macOS, making it easily accessible and user-friendly. Whether you're recording a video message, a tutorial, or a presentation, QuickTime offers a straightforward way to record both webcam and screen content with minimal setup.

### Post-Production Tools

Our Brand Video team uses best-in-class post-production tools. We standardize our workflow to handle everything from editing and motion graphics to translations and captions. This setup lets us move quickly—whether we're collaborating with internal teams or jumping in with external vendors. When we work with external creative partners, we make sure to request full project files so we can tweak or update the project as needed. Our hope is to stay agile and to maximize the potential of every project. 

- **Adobe Premiere:** We recommend all videos be edited with Adobe Premiere as it is the industry standard and easily integrates with other post-production software. Also, if you begin a project in Premiere and need our assistance we can easily jump into the project. 
- **Adobe Aftereffects:** We use Aftereffects for all of our motion graphic and VFX needs.
Rev.com: Rev.com is a trusted industry-standard platform for captions, subtitles and translations known for its accuracy, quick turnaround, and support for multiple languages that meet accessibility standards and global distribution needs.

### Video Assets 

- [GitLab animated logo](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1y8nsDuBIL3J0uMCMfc1NXGZWwd8HPpZT)
- [Motion Templates](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1GFTBYu8TN371SanjhyQ9jO-t-W3H6jzJ), including lower thirds 
 
### Guidelines 

- [Motion Guidelines](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1PjtoGsuN4fvCoyNnQtFMJknzFbKV84kg)
- [Wardrobe best practices](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1nNwb-iquFw3rt3Esxoiuae3o59uMLUK7Y169c1ZB-GA/edit#slide=id.g339ec0b3cbc_0_905) for live video shoots
- [Wardrobe best practices](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1nNwb-iquFw3rt3Esxoiuae3o59uMLUK7Y169c1ZB-GA/edit#slide=id.g339ec0b3cbc_0_905) for virtual video shoots 
- [Virtual Recording Guideline](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fckZavV_SQzGnKXe2IEB4wb-jj6NtzCtRFc5ItO3Crs/edit?slide=id.g3357bbe63e5_0_183#slide=id.g3357bbe63e5_0_183) - This guideline includes helpful information to capture the best quality virtual content with internal team members and external guests. Share with your guests in advance of your recording as there are background, lighting, and wardrobe tips to make sure everyone looks and sounds their best!

## Get in touch 

Please reach out using the `#brand_video` slack channel. 
