---
title: Complex SPDX Expression Evaluation
status: proposed
creation-date: "2025-01-06"
authors: [ "@hacks4oats" ]
coaches: []
dris: [ "@johncrowley", "@tkopel" ]
owning-stage: "~devops::application security testing"
participating-stages: ["~devops::security risk management"]
# Hides this page in the left sidebar. Recommended so we don't pollute it.
toc_hide: true
---

<!-- Design Documents often contain forward-looking statements -->
<!-- vale gitlab.FutureTense = NO -->

<!-- This renders the design document header on the detail page, so don't remove it-->
{{< engineering "/design-document-header" "/" >}}

## Summary

SPDX license expressions provide a clear, [standardized](https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2-draft/SPDX-license-expressions/),
and machine-readable way to document the software licenses associated with code,
ensuring compliance with licensing obligations. Standardized expressions help
users manage legal risks, meet licensing requirements, and easily share software
components for reuse.  Expressions can be simple, for example an expression
composed of singular SPDX license identifier, or complex, like when more than
one expressions are combined using boolean operators.

## Motivation

Projects are increasingly adopting licensing models that make use of complex
license expressions. For example, a project might require both Apache-2.0 and
MIT licenses, or it might let users choose _between_ Apache-2.0 or MIT licenses.
Unfortunately, there's no way to express this with singular license expressions,
so project's that depend on packages that utilize complex license expressions
are left with a dependency list that only mentions an _unknown_ license. This
results in a user experience where it's impossible to quickly view the licensing
options of a dependency, and also presents a problem when a user tries to craft
a license approval policy to fit such an expression. Supporting complex
expressions will improve the development workflow for projects that work with
dependencies that use complex licensing models.

### Goals

- Support for simple license identifiers, and the `AND` and `OR` boolean
  operators.
- Populate dependency list with license _expressions_ and not just license
  identifiers. For example, a dependency with a `Apache-2.0 AND MIT` license
  will show up as such in the dependency list.
- Enforce license approval policies on projects that use expressions. For
  example, if a license approval policy only approves of `Apache-2.0`, and a
  proposed dependency has a `Apache-2.0 AND MIT` license, the dependency should
  not pass the approval policy. On the other hand, if the approval has acceptance
  for both licenses, it _should_ pass.
- Performance should be acceptable for groups with many projects, and projects
  with many dependencies.

### Non-Goals

- The first iteration will not include for the following:
  - `WITH` operator
  - `+` operator
  - References using `AdditionRef-`, `DocumentRef-` or `LicenseRef-`

## Proposal

At a high level, license expressions will propagate from the Package Metadata
Database (PMDB). These expressions will surface in the dependency list at both
the project and group level, and will also be used when evaluating the approval
status of a dependency's license.

## Design and implementation details

SPDX license expressions are supported across ecosystems at varying levels. The
following table depicts the level at which they're supported by each ecosystem.

| Ecosystem   | Support level
| ----------- | -------------
| `cargo`     | fully supported
| `cocoapods` | one or more identifiers - equivalent to conjunctive `AND`
| `composer`  | fully supported
| `conan`     | one or more identifiers - equivalent to conjunctive `AND`
| `gem`       | one or more identifiers - equivalent to conjunctive `AND`
| `golang`    | one or more identifiers - equivalent to conjunctive `AND`
| `maven`     | one or more identifiers - equivalent to conjunctive `AND`
| `npm`       | fully supported
| `pypi`      | one or more identifiers - equivalent to conjunctive `AND`
| `swift`     | one or more identifiers - equivalent to conjunctive `AND`

### Licensing options

At a high level, a SPDX expression can be compiled down into a set of license
combinations. Take the following expression, for example.

```text
Apache-2.0 AND (MIT OR GLP-3.0)
```

The expression is human readable, deterministic, but it's far from optimized for
our use cases. We can improve on this by expanding the expression into the
different licensing options it represents. In this case, the options could be
represented like so:

```json
[
    ["Apache-2.0", "MIT"],
    ["Apache-2.0", "GLP-3.0"]
]
```

From here, it's easy to see how a license approval policy can be evaluated
against the different licensing options. If an approval policy denies any
of the licenses, the next license option can be tested for denial. The change in
logic is minimal, with the only change being an additional outer loop in the
[violation checking logic](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/blob/4d8427c67fd1ecb7b854469d4151b0cddd2e9b34/ee/lib/security/scan_result_policies/license_violation_checker.rb#L32-L38).

### Evaluation

The solution above is functional, but it must be further improved to meet our
performance requirements. As previously mentioned, license scanning **must**
remain performant even for the largest of projects. This solution does not
provide that, and we can demonstrate this with the following example.

Say that we scan a project with the following components and licenses, and have
an approval policy that we want to evaluate against for policy violations.

```json
{
    "packageA": [ ["LicenseA", "LicenseB"], ["LicenseA", "LicenseC"]],
    "packageB": [ ["LicenseD", "LicenseE"], ["LicenseD", "LicenseF"]],
    "packageC": [ ["LicenseG", "LicenseH"], ["LicenseG", "LicenseI"]],
}
```

Before evaluating the license approval policies, we'd need to clean up the data,
so that we have a singular array of licensing options to evaluate against. The
process requires us to combine the options in order to compact the arrays. On
first pass, we'd have the following options.

```json
[
    ["LicenseA", "LicenseB"],
    ["LicenseA", "LicenseC"],
]
```

On second pass, we'd need to combine the existing options with the next set of
licensing options, so we'll end up with something like so.

```json
[
    ["LicenseA", "LicenseB", "LicenseD", "LicenseE"],
    ["LicenseA", "LicenseC", "LicenseD", "LicenseE"],
    ["LicenseA", "LicenseB", "LicenseD", "LicenseF"],
    ["LicenseA", "LicenseC", "LicenseD", "LicenseF"],
]
```

The amount of options has grown considerably, but we're _still not done_.
We must do a third and final pass to incorporate the remaining licensing
options for `packageC`. Doing so results in the following outcome.

```json
[
    ["LicenseA", "LicenseB", "LicenseD", "LicenseE", "LicenseG", "LicenseH"],
    ["LicenseA", "LicenseC", "LicenseD", "LicenseE", "LicenseG", "LicenseH"],
    ["LicenseA", "LicenseB", "LicenseD", "LicenseF", "LicenseG", "LicenseH"],
    ["LicenseA", "LicenseC", "LicenseD", "LicenseF", "LicenseG", "LicenseH"],
    ["LicenseA", "LicenseB", "LicenseD", "LicenseE", "LicenseG", "LicenseI"],
    ["LicenseA", "LicenseC", "LicenseD", "LicenseE", "LicenseG", "LicenseI"],
    ["LicenseA", "LicenseB", "LicenseD", "LicenseF", "LicenseG", "LicenseI"],
    ["LicenseA", "LicenseC", "LicenseD", "LicenseF", "LicenseG", "LicenseI"],
]
```

From this example, we can see how quickly the search space can become because
we're essentially getting the cartesian product of different sets. This
[combinatorial explosion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Combinatorial_explosion)
requires us to further refine the implementation, so that it remains performant
should we be presented with a large amount of dual licensed packages.

To do this, we can make use of [bit arrays](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bit_array)
to act as a vector of licenses. At a high level the representation would work
like this.

- Every bit in the bit array will represent the detection of a license.
- There are 729 known licenses in the SPDX library. If we account for this,
future growth, and word alignment, we can use a bit array with 1024 bits.
- We can XOR the bit arrays to detect for approvals or violations. Bitwise
operations are fast, and can also be parallelized by the processor.

To demonstrate the implementation, we can do an example using a smaller set of
available options. Say that projects have the option of using one or more out of
eight licenses. We could represent the licenses like so.

| Name | Leftmost Index ([MSB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bit_numbering))
| ---- | --------------
| LicenseA | 0
| LicenseB | 1
| LicenseC | 2
| LicenseD | 3
| LicenseE | 4
| LicenseF | 5
| LicenseG | 6
| LicenseH | 7

Let's say that there was a policy that disallowed `LicenseF`, and we wanted to
evaluate it against the licensing options above. A list approach would have to
do a union operation between two lists. Ruby makes this readable and
[easy to do](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/blob/4d8427c67fd1ecb7b854469d4151b0cddd2e9b34/ee/lib/security/scan_result_policies/license_violation_checker.rb#L32-L38):

```ruby
          all_denied_licenses = (licenses_from_report - licenses_from_policy).uniq
          comparison_licenses = join_ids_and_names(license_ids, license_names)
          policy_denied_license_names = (comparison_licenses - licenses_from_policy).uniq
          violates_license_policy = policy_denied_license_names.present?
```

For a singular set of licensing options, it may be acceptable, but using this
for larger sets of data would begin to deteriorate performance. In comparison,
the bit array approach would look like so:

```ruby
licenses_from_policy = 0b00000100
licenses_from_report = 0b01010010

def is_compliant?(licenses_from_policy, licenses_from_report)
  (licenses_from_report & ~licenses_from_policy) == 0
end

is_compliant?(licenses_from_policy, licenses_from_report)
=> false
```

### Storage

#### PMDB

The [exporter service](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/security-products/license-db/license-exporter)
for our Package Metadata Database will be in charge of parsing the SPDX
expression, and converting it into an array of bitmasks.

#### GitLab Rails

The GitLab Rails database will no longer rely on an enum to identify the license used
by a project. Instead it will add an additional column that stores the original
license expression, and its equivalent bitmask representations.

## Alternative Solutions

<!--
It might be a good idea to include a list of alternative solutions or paths considered, although it is not required. Include pros and cons for
each alternative solution/path.

"Do nothing" and its pros and cons could be included in the list too.
-->
