---
title: Create Stage
description: >-
  The Create Stage is a group of teams including
  Code Creation, Code Review, Editor Extensions,
  Remote Development, and Source Code.
---

## Hello

[We're the Create Stage](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/engineering-managers/) and we are a group of teams within the Dev Sub Department. We're comprised of five areas [within the GitLab product](/handbook/product/categories/#create-stage).

| Team | Engineering Managers |
| ---- | -------------------- |
| [Create Stage](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/) | [Darva Satcher](/handbook/company/team/#dsatcher) (Director, Engineering) |
| [Create:Code Creation](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/code-creation/) | [Matt Nohr](/handbook/company/team/#mnohr) (Fullstack) |
| [Create:Code Review](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/code-review/) | [François Rosé](/handbook/company/team/#francoisrose) (Backend) [André Luís](/handbook/company/team/#andr3) (Frontend) |
| [Create:Editor Extensions](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/editor-extensions/) | [Kisha Mavryck Richardson](/handbook/company/team/#kishamavryck) (Fullstack) |
| [Create:Remote Development](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/remote-development/) | [Adebayo Adesanya](/handbook/company/team/#adebayo_a) (Fullstack) |
| [Create:Source Code](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/source-code/) | [André Luís](/handbook/company/team/#andr3) (Frontend) (Backend - Acting)|

## Mission

### What do we do?

The Create Stage supports software development teams accelerate their delivery and reduce cycle times, by improving efficiency and collaboration. Our stage provides tools that support the beginning of the DevOps Life Cycle.

### Whom do we serve?

We build tools for:

- Software Developers
- DevOps Engineers
- Development Team leads
- Product Managers
- Product Designers

### How do we serve them?

The [Product Vision Handbook Page](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/create/#categories-in-create) provides specific examples for how we serve each type of GitLab user.

## Vision

The following areas have been defined as our direction for the year:

- [Fast, reliable, and easily managed Git storage](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/create/#fast-reliable-and-easily-managed-git-storage)
- [Binary file workflows](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/create/#binary-file-workflows)
- [Delightful code review](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/create/#delightful-code-review)
- [Better collaboration in OSS and within large organizations across many teams](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/create/#better-collaboration-in-oss-and-within-large-organizations-across-many-teams)
- [Unifying our editing experiences](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/create/#unifying-our-editing-experiences)
- [Better integrations](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/create/#better-integrations)

## Professional Development

Each team member is encouraged to take positive steps towards **improving their skills and knowledge**.

**Growing your skillset** will lead to more insightful contributions to the GitLab Product. As your expertise grows, your impact on the product and the company also grows. Here at GitLab, it is important to us to invest in the Professional Development of our team members.

If there is an area you are interested in learning more about, please reach out to your manager so they can provide an environment that will allow you to grow in your areas of preference. Some recommended resources are below:

**Engineering Managers**

- [Recommended Books](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/engineering-managers/books/)
- [Training Materials](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/engineering-managers/training/)

**Individual Contributors**

- [Professional Development](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/engineers/professional-development/)
- [Recommended Books](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/engineers/books/)
- [Training Materials](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/engineers/training/)
- [Transitioning from an Individual Contributor to a Manager](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/training/ic-to-manager)
- [Skip-level Meetings](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/engineers/skip-level/)
- [Iteration](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/engineers/iteration/)

## How we work

Each team work in the manner that best meets the needs of their product and their team.

- [Create Engineering Managers](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/engineering-managers/)
- [Remote Development Team](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/remote-development/)
- [Code Review Team](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/code-review/#work)
- Source Code Team [Backend](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/source-code/backend/#workflow), [Frontend](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/code-review/frontend/#work)

## Templates

We use templates in order to make our processes more transparent and efficient.  Documenting practices once and reusing them often provides guidance and support throughout the stage.

## How we work across teams

The Create Stage teams work together and play together. We are fortunate to be able to rely on each other to support and complement our features. Some examples of Cross Team Collaboration:

- The Source Code and Gitaly Teams often collaborate together on issues
- Gitaly Team Members have mentored Source Code team members on the Go Programming language

Every quarter we participate in a cross team bonding activity, Create Team Day.

## How we live our values

Engineering Managers live our [values](/handbook/values/) every day.

[Read More about how Engineering Managers live GitLab Values](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/engineering-managers/live/)

## How we measure Results

- [OKRs](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/engineering-managers/okrs/)
- Dashboards
- Issue Boards
- [Monitoring](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/engineering-managers/monitoring/)

## How we measure Iteration

- Logs
- MR Rate

## How we track productivity

In an effort to drive further clarity and align expectations on what is expected for each role, the Create stage has expanded on Engineering performance indicators such as the [MR Rate](/handbook/engineering/development/performance-indicators/#mr-rate) (above 12 per month) and will further specify expectations for each seniority level.

### Why?

During talent assessments, Engineering Managers take a holistic approach to evaluate team members' performance. They consider a diverse set of interconnected metrics across our ecosystem, ensuring fair assessment against the expectations for each [Job Grade](/handbook/total-rewards/compensation/compensation-calculator/#gitlab-job-grades). These metrics include:

- Merge requests merged
- Code reviews conducted
- Maintainer and interviewer status
- Number of interviews participated in
- Mentoring activities
- Merge Request Impact
- Multiple Others

This comprehensive approach allows for a well-rounded evaluation of an engineer's contributions and growth. For more details, refer to our [Talent Assessments](/handbook/engineering/development/dev/create/talent-assessments/) page.

We believe it's important to communicate expectations clearly and transparently so we can all know what is expected and what to expect. This section looks to add clarity to this topic and promote higher awareness among the entire Create stage.

### What metrics do we focus?

The goal of any team performance metric is to contribute partially to the understanding of a reality. This is because each metric might be imperfect on its own but alongside others can offer a more complete picture and better insights into the contributions given by the team and/or individual.

Currently we're setting clear monthly expectations for the following metrics:

- **Merge Request Rate**:
  - When applied to a **group**: The numerator is the number of merge requests merged into a set of projects (see [notes below](#metrics_notes)).  The denominator is the number of people in the group.
  - When applied to an **individual**: It's the number of merge requests merged into a set of projects (see [notes below](#metrics_notes)).
- **Reviews Rate**:
  - When applied to a **group**: The numerator is the number of code reviews given to merge requests that merged into a set of projects (see [notes below](#metrics_notes)) in a given period (usually a month). The denominator is the number of people in the group.
  - When applied to an **individual**: It's the number of code reviews given to merge requests that merged into a set of projects (see [notes below](#metrics_notes)) in a given period (usually a month).

#### Dashboards

- Merge Request Rate: [tableau dashboard](https://10az.online.tableau.com/#/site/gitlab/views/MTTMAllMRs/MTTMDashboard)
- Reviews Rate: [tableau dashboard](https://10az.online.tableau.com/#/site/gitlab/views/AverageReviewTime/ReviewStatsbyUser?:iid=4)

Note: **If you don't have access to Tableau,** reach out to your direct manager to either provide you with a screenshot for the desired period or if applicable they can open an access request to provide you with permanent access.

#### Notes: {#metrics_notes}

1. These metrics include all MRs affecting the product. The specific projects included in the dataset are listed in [this seed file](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-data/analytics/-/blob/master/transform/snowflake-dbt/seeds/seed_engineering/projects_part_of_product.csv?ref_type=heads).
1. We will iterate on this process over time by expanding our metric set and refining them to ensure alignment with team contributions and evolving role expectations. Any changes will be clearly communicated to all team members.

### Baseline targets for each job grade

In the table below, we outline the baseline numbers for each of the metric related to the Seniority level:

| Metric      | Associate | Intermediate | Senior | Staff |
|-------------|-----------|--------------|--------|-------|
| MR Rate     | 5         | 5            | 8      | 13    |
| Review Rate | 3         | 10           | 16     | 16    |

### How were the targets calculated?

By analysing the existing teams' metrics and collaborating with all Engineering Managers in the stage, targets were defined to accurately reflect the expectations set during a normal calibration session for talent assessments at the [Performing](/handbook/people-group/talent-assessment/#performing) level of each role.

These targets were set having adherence to our CREDIT values in mind and are both ambitious and realistic.

### What do the targets mean?

We expect team members to be **on or above target for at least 6 out of the 12 months of a given year**.

**For Individual Contributors,** these targets can provide a health status signal in alignment with expectations for the role and seniority they're in.

**For Engineering Managers,** these targets can provide a signal to review team processes, planning, or individual cases to better support their team members.

For any teams that have specific contexts that justify a deviation, that extra context should be documented in their handbook team page as much as possible.
