---
title: Laptop Buyback
---

## Overview

If the team member has not completed 1 calendar year at the time of offboarding or has received a laptop refresh within the past year, they have the option, at GitLab’s discretion, to purchase their laptop for current market value from GitLab. If the laptop has been used by the team member for more than one year at the time of offboarding, they can, at GitLab’s discretion, opt to keep their laptop at no cost. Subject to promptly working with the Company during the offboarding process to enable the laptop to be wiped and, when required by applicable legal obligations, imaged for preservation purposes. If GitLab needs to create an image of the team member's computer for preservation purposes, that may be accomplished via sending the computer to GitLab Corporate Security via prepaid package or remotely via [Backblaze](/handbook/security/corporate/systems/backblaze/).

Note that the option to purchase a laptop or to keep a laptop at no cost may be voided where the team member is involved in cases of investigation, misconduct, termination for cause, any violation of [GitLab’s Code of Business Conduct & Ethics](https://ir.gitlab.com/static-files/7d8c7eb3-cb17-4d68-a607-1b7a1fa1c95d), or other legal or security related inquiries.

If the team member would like to purchase the laptop at the current market value, and the Company has agreed, they will need to send an email to laptops@gitlab.com to start the process. If purchasing, our Manager of IT, or Lead IT Analyst can approve, and send the team member an email with the determined value. If the team member decides to move forward with purchasing, our accounting department will reach out with payment information.

Retained laptops must follow the [wipe process](/handbook/security/corporate/services/laptops/wipe).

If the departing team member opts not to keep or [donate](/handbook/security/corporate/services/laptops/donation) their laptop, they can [return](/handbook/security/corporate/services/laptops/recycle) it to GitLab.

**If the team member is under an active Legal Hold or possesses material related to an active Company investigation, they must comply with the notice requirements. Failure to comply with an active Legal Hold may expose the team member or the Company to adverse consequences, including civil or criminal penalties and sanctions. Their obligation to follow the procedures outlined in the notice continues until the hold is lifted, even if they depart the Company. If the team member departs the Company, all Company devices and any material they're holding in accordance with any active Legal Hold Notice or active Company investigation should be turned over upon their departure.**
