---
title: "Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging"
description: "Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging is fundamental to the success of GitLab. We include it in every way possible and in all that we do."
---

<!-- blank line -->
<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/947155019?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture; clipboard-write" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="Get to Know GitLab"></iframe></div><script src="https://player.vimeo.com/api/player.js"></script>

## Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging at GitLab

Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging is fundamental to the success of GitLab.  We include it in every way possible and in all that we do.  We strive for a transparent environment where all globally dispersed voices are heard and welcomed.  We strive for an environment where people can show up as their full selves each day and can contribute to their best ability.  And with over 100,000 organizations utilizing GitLab across the globe, we strive for a team that is representative of our users.

Diversity complements our other [values](/handbook/values/), specifically Collaboration, Efficiency and Results.
And diversity in our leadership [supports innovation](https://www.bcg.com/publications/2018/how-diverse-leadership-teams-boost-innovation), [promotes better decision making](https://www.cloverpop.com/hacking-diversity-with-inclusive-decision-making-white-paper) and [improves financial results](https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/people-and-organizational-performance/our-insights/why-diversity-matters).

## GitLab's Diversity Inclusion and Belonging Mission

- **Mission**: At GitLab, we believe everyone can contribute and the Diversity Inclusion and Belonging Team are building scalable strategies based on our acronym, A.D.A.P.T. which stands for **A**ction, **D**oing Good in the communities we serve, holding ourselves **A**ccountable and creating equitable **P**olicies in a **T**ransparent environment.  We are focused on helping to build high performing, customer centric teams by expanding, establishing, embedding our DIB  (/handbook/values/#diversity-inclusion). Just as DIB is a journey, our acronym, **A.D.A.P.T.** mirrors the agility required throughout that journey.
- **Action** - Action puts intentionality into how we attract, progress and retain our team members as well as engage with our customers and the open source community.
- **Do Good** - We "Do Good" by providing avenues for GitLab & team members to meaningfully contribute to our community and society.
- **Accountable** - We hold ourselves Accountable in the commitments we make as well as being Answerable for the outcome.
- **Policies**  - We build scalable Policies to govern our work and actionable processes which inform our program development and execution.
- **Transparent** - Transparency is the T in our GitLab CREDIT values and how we operate within DIB ensuring that our internal efforts are reflected externally.

## GitLab's Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging Vision

**Vision**: The Diversity Inclusion and Belonging value empowers everyone to contribute.

## GitLab's definition of Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging

The phrase "Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging" (or DIB) refers to the terminology for the initiative to create a diverse workforce and an environment where everyone can be their full selves.

**Diversity** refers to characteristics of the people who make up GitLab and how they identify. Race, gender, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, disability, sexual orientation are *some* examples of how the data might be categorized when looking at GitLab's diversity.
Sometimes we can see things that make us diverse and sometimes we can't. We believe that a company composed of a diverse group of people may lead to diverse opinions and ideas which, if productively engaged with, can build innovation.

**GitLab uses the term "underrepresented" and it is meant to be a way of recognizing that we need more of what we do not have so that we can be at our best.**

The context is "at GitLab" or "in a specific department or team at GitLab."
This term is generally used in the context of reporting on how GitLab is working on understanding and improving the sourcing, interviewing, hiring, and retention of those who either want to work or currently work at GitLab.

- A single person **should not** be referred to as a "diverse person" or a "diversity hire" which would imply they are not included in the current community or that they are only employed because of a factor that is not directly related to their skills and their ability to do their job.
- People should not be singled out or "othered" by labels with cold terminology in personal interactions.

For additional information about how GitLab uses this data to make progress, please see ["select underrepresented group"](#examples-of-select-underrepresented-groups)

**Inclusion** is the ability to recognize, respect, and value differences in those around us.  It focuses on the action and understanding of what makes us diverse and working towards building a diverse team and creating welcoming workplace. It requires skills such as empathy, openness, listening, etc.  This lays the foundation of an inclusive mindset.  The foundation of understanding gives way to the actions and being intentional about creating policies and practices that embrace diversity that in the end change the overall company culture to create an environment of inclusion. Inclusion also means being aware of both [positive and negative biases](/handbook/company/culture/inclusion/unconscious-bias/) and how those biases impact who we hire, work with, and retain.

GitLab believes that many perspectives coming together creates a more innovative environment to work in with more satisfied team members, leading to a better product and increased profitability.

**Belonging** is a feeling that your insights and contributions are valued. It goes back to team members feeling they can bring their full selves to work. It's not enough to simply include people to have a "seat at the table", but it's important to amplify everyone's voices, remove barriers and appreciate each others for their unique backgrounds.
Embracing inclusion may increase the **sense of belonging**. Team members become more engaged and are invested in the work they are doing, because they are able to see themselves in the work being accomplished with the company overall.

We believe in empowering team members to get their work done efficiently and collaboratively by establishing clear [DRIs](/handbook/people-group/directly-responsible-individuals/) for all our work. [DRIs do not owe anyone an explanation for their decisions](/handbook/people-group/directly-responsible-individuals/#empowering-dris), but DRIs can still acknowledge input by closing an issue and marking it `Won't Do` or commenting on an issue acknowledging that they have read all the comments.

All team members don't have to agree on the best course of action- we can [disagree, commit, and disagree](/handbook/values/#disagree-and-commit)- but everyone can contribute and it is on the DRI to acknowledge those.
Some other ways we actively cultivate a sense of Belonging at GitLab include creating and cultivating allies, welcoming family members in the background of a call, and sharing [negative feedback in 1-1 settings](/handbook/values/#negative-feedback-is-1-1).

**A good way to look at Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging is:**

- **Diversity**
  - diversity dimensions/layers that make people who they are
  - knowing the layers and having a seat at the table
- **Inclusion**
  - having a voice
  - feeling empowered to use your voice
- **Belonging**
  - acknowledgment of your voice being heard
  - the feeling of being a part of something
  - creating an environment where team members feel secure to be themselves

### Examples of Select Underrepresented Groups

An underrepresented group describes a subset of a population that holds a smaller percentage within a significant subgroup than the subset holds in the general population. The accepted definition of "underrepresented minorities" from the National Science Foundation and other major research institutions focuses on racial and ethnic groups whose representation in a profession is significantly below their representation in the general population.  Populations whose representation in tech roles has been historically low.  Tech roles are based on Federal Employer Information Report EEO-1 skill designations. At GitLab, this includes all technical roles across the company, such as Engineering & Product.

At GitLab, we consider the following groups to be *underrepresented groups*:

- Women - Globally
- Women in [Management](/handbook/company/structure/#organizational-chart) - Globally
- Women in [Senior Leadership](/handbook/company/structure/#organizational-chart) - Globally
- Black/African American - United States
- Black/African American in [Management](/handbook/company/structure/#organizational-chart) - United States
- Black/African American in [Senior Leadership](/handbook/company/structure/#organizational-chart) - United States
- Hispanic/Latino - United States
- Hispanic/Latino in [Management](/handbook/company/structure/#organizational-chart) - United States
- Hispanic/Latino in [Senior Leadership](/handbook/company/structure/#organizational-chart) - United States
- Indigenous Peoples/Alaska Native - United States
- Indigenous Peoples/Alaska Native in [Management](/handbook/company/structure/#organizational-chart) - United States
- Indigenous Peoples/Alaska Native in [Senior Leadership](/handbook/company/structure/#organizational-chart) - United States
- Hawaiian/Pacific Islander - United States
- Hawaiian/Pacific Islander in [Management](/handbook/company/structure/#organizational-chart) - United States
- Hawaiian/Pacific Islander in [Senior Leadership](/handbook/company/structure/#organizational-chart) - United States

**Due to data and or legal limitations, this is not an exhaustive list of all of our underrepresented groups. Those with disabilities, those that identify as LGBTQIA+, those who choose not to disclose as well as underrepresented ethnicities outside of the US, etc.

The DIB Team is actively working on finding data sets outside the US and inclusion metrics for underrepresented groups we cannot report on as team member representation.

Of Note: Management refers to Team Members who are People Managers, whereas Leadership denotes Team Members who are in Director-level positions and above.

Source: GitLab's People Analytics Team, WorkDay

## Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Team

- [Sherida McMullan](/handbook/company/team/#sheridam) - Vice President, Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging
- [Liam McNally](/handbook/company/team/#lmcnally1) - Manager, Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging
- Naomi Johnson - DIB Business Partner

## Values

Inclusive teams are naturally more engaged, collaborative and innovative.
We aim to align [our values](/handbook/values/) to be reflective of our company wide commitment to fostering a diverse and inclusive environment.

In addition, the very nature of our company is to facilitate and foster inclusion.
We believe in asynchronous communication, we allow flexible work hours. GitLab team members are encouraged to work when and where they are most comfortable.

## Fully distributed and completely connected

The GitLab team is fully distributed across the globe, providing our team the opportunity to connect with each others cultures, celebrations and unique traditions.
We collaborate professionally and connect personally!

Our unique all-remote team opens our door to everyone.
Candidates are not limited by geography and we [champion this approach](/handbook/company/culture/all-remote/), to the extent that it's possible, for all companies!

By having no offices and allowing each GitLab team member to work and live where they are most comfortable, GitLab offers a uniquely inclusive culture.

- All-remote means that you [will not sacrifice career advancement](/handbook/people-group/learning-and-development) by working outside of the office, as even GitLab executives are fully remote.
- All-remote creates a workplace where caregivers, individuals with physical disabilities, etc. are not disadvantaged for being unable to regularly commute into an office.
- GitLab's approach to [Spending Company Money](/handbook/finance/spending-company-money/) enables all team members to create a work environment uniquely tailored for them.
- All-remote enables those who must relocate frequently for family and personal reasons to take their career with them.
- All-remote allows movement and relocation to physical settings that contribute to an individual's health (e.g. moving to a location with an improved air quality index).

Learn more about GitLab's [all-remote culture](/handbook/company/culture/all-remote/).

## GitLab team member data

Please see our [identity data](/handbook/company/culture/inclusion/identity-data/).

## What we are doing with Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging

### Talent Acquisition initiatives

[This page provides an overview of our Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging Talent Acquisition initiatives](talent-acquisition-initiatives/).

### Engineering Initiatives

[This page provides an overview of our Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging Engineering initiatives](engineering-initiatives/)

### Sales Initiatives

- TBD

### #IamRemarkable Workshop

[#IamRemarkable](https://www.rmrkblty.org/iamremarkable) is a workshop created by Google. The initiative aims to individuals to celebrate their achievements in the workplace and beyond, and to challenge perceptions around self-promotion.

#### Logistics

At GitLab we launched the #IamRemarkable workshop in April 2021, and aim to continue with two workshops per quarter on an ongoing basis. Before the start of each quarter, a quarterly workshop planning issue will be opened where team members have the opportunity to volunteer to participate. Slots will be allocated on first come first serve basis.

The workshops are kept to a max of 15 team members to generate more comfort and psychological safety within the group, in addition to providing everyone with an opportunity to share and contribute to discussion. Each workshop is two hours in duration. Due to the personal nature of the workshop, we do not record #IamRemarkable sessions.

#### Facilitators

Currently, we have three GitLab team members who are certified to facilitate the #IamRemarkable workshop:

1. Giuliana Lucchesi
1. Terri Chu
1. Gosia Ksionek

In order to more efficiently scale this initiative at GitLab, we would *love* to have more facilitators join us! Anyone can [register to become a facilitator](https://www.rmrkblty.org/iamremarkableabout-facilitators). As soon as you have been certified, feel free to add your name to the list of facilitators above.

### Inclusive benefits

We list our [Pregnancy & Maternity Care](/handbook/total-rewards/benefits/general-and-entity-benefits/inc-benefits-us/) publicly so people don't have to ask for them during interviews. In addition GitLab offers an Employee Assistance Program to all team members via [Modern Health](/handbook/total-rewards/benefits/modern-health/), a one-stop shop for all tools related to mental well-being and self-improvement.

### Inclusive language

In our [GitLab Values](/handbook/values/#inclusive-language--pronouns) we list: 'Use inclusive language. For example, prefer "Hi everybody" or "Hi people" to "Hi guys".

### TMRGs - Team Member Resource Groups

We have created several TMRGs and welcome interest in creating new ones. Would you like to sign up for an Team Member Resource Group, start an TMRG, or just learn more?  See our [TMRG Guide](/handbook/company/culture/inclusion/erg-guide/).

### Military veterans and spouses

GitLab welcomes military veterans from around the world, as well as military spouses, to learn more about [life at GitLab](/handbook/company/culture/#life-at-gitlab) and to apply for [vacancies](https://about.gitlab.com/jobs/). We recognize the values gained from military experience, and we foster an [inclusive atmosphere](/handbook/company/culture/all-remote/building-culture/) to thrive in when returning to civilian life.

Our [all-remote culture](/handbook/company/culture/all-remote/) provides an ideal work environment for military veterans and spouses. By empowering team members to live and work where they are most comfortable, veterans and spouses can work in a safe, nurturing environment that they [choose and design](/handbook/company/culture/all-remote/workspace).

We encourage military veterans and spouses to [read testimonials](/handbook/company/culture/all-remote/people#military-spouses-and-families) from GitLab team members to understand the benefits of all-remote when [joining the workforce](/handbook/company/culture/all-remote/getting-started) following military service. We are committed to our [Military Leave](/handbook/people-policies/leave-of-absence#military-leave) policy.

*GitLab is actively [iterating](/handbook/values/#iteration) within Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging and Talent Acquisition to ensure that additional underrepresented groups are pursued, embraced, and positioned for success.*

### Disability Inclusion

GitLab welcomes all types of team members, including any that may choose to identify as ones that currently have or were previously diagnosed as having a disability. In our HRIS (Human Resource Information System) Workday, on the Job tab page, in the Equal Employment Opportunity section, we have a field titled `Disability Status` that we ask our team members to complete during the onboarding process. 

The reason we ask is because it is a legal requirement in the United States under Section 503 of the [Rehabilitation Act of 1973](https://www.eeoc.gov/employment-protections-under-rehabilitation-act-1973-50-years-protecting-americans-disabilities), as we are a Federal contractor and are required to ask employees to **voluntarily** self-identify if they have a disability or have ever had a disability, and to provide equal employment opportunity to qualified people with disabilities.

The options of this field are:

- Yes, I have or previously had a disability
- No, I do not have a disability
- Prefer Not to Answer

If you are unsure how to answer, please review our [Individual with Disabilities Policy](/handbook/people-policies/inc-usa#individuals-with-disabilities-policy).

At GitLab, we are proud to make reasonable accommodations to the known disability of a team member. Please review the [reasonable accommodation](/handbook/people-policies/inc-usa#reasonable-accommodation) handbook section if you need a reasonable accommodation due to your disability. Find more information on GitLab Inc's [Individuals with Disabilities](/handbook/people-policies/inc-usa#individuals-with-disabilities-policy) policy.

### United States Veteran Inclusion

The United States Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) enforces the affirmative action provisions of the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974. This law, sometimes referred to as VEVRAA, requires employers doing business with the United States Federal Government (such as our GitLab Federal entity) to take steps to recruit, hire and promote protected veterans. It also makes it illegal to discriminate against protected veterans when making employment decisions on hiring, firing, pay, benefits, job assignments, promotions, layoffs, training, and other employment-related activities. Under VEVRAA, a veteran who served on active duty in the U.S. military and was discharged or release from service under conditions other than dishonorable may be classified as one or more of the four Protected Veteran categories:

- **Disabled Veteran** A veteran who served on active duty in the U.S. military and is entitled to disability compensation (or who but for the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to disability compensation) under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, or was discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected disability.
- **Recently Separated Veteran** A veteran separated during the three-year period beginning on the date of the veteran's discharge or release from active duty in the U.S. military.
- **Armed Forces Service Medal Veteran** A veteran who, while serving on active duty in the U.S. military, participated in a U.S. military operation that received an Armed Forces service medal.
- **Other Protected Veteran (listed in Workday as Active Duty Wartime or Campaign Badge Veteran)** A veteran who served on active duty in the U.S. military during a war, or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge was authorized under the laws administered by the Department of Defense.

In our HRIS (Human Resource Information System) Workday, on the Job tab page, in the Equal Employment Opportunity section, we have a field titled `Protected Veteran Status` that we ask our US-based team members to complete during the onboarding process. The reason we ask is because it is a legal requirement in the United States for us to request this information. We encourage GitLab team members to self-disclose in our HRIS without any fear of judgment or negative consequences, but it is always optional. All veteran status data is completely confidential, and only requested for mandatory reporting purposes.

The options of this field are:

- Yes, I am a US Veteran with a Protected Status
- Not Applicable
- Prefer Not to Answer

Above this field, we have a section titled `Veteran Status` that we ask our US-based team members to review and also complete during the onboarding process, if it applies to them and if they so wish. The reason we ask is because it is a legal requirement in the United States for us to request and document this information. We encourage our US-based GitLab team members to self-disclose their Veteran Status in our HRIS without any fear of judgment or negative consequences, but it is always optional. Again, all veteran status data is completely confidential, and only requested for mandatory reporting purposes.

If you are a team member on a GitLab Inc or Federal contract and a disabled veteran you may request a "reasonable accommodation." A reasonable accommodation is one that allows you to perform your job, and must be provided by GitLab unless doing so would cause GitLab significant difficulty or expense. A reasonable accommodation does not change essential job functions. GitLab can choose the type of reasonable accommodation that will be made available; however, the accommodation must be effective. More information on how to request a reasonable accommodation is available [here](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ofccp/compliance-assistance/outreach/reasonable-accomodation-pocket-card). Please review the [reasonable accommodation](/handbook/people-policies/inc-usa#reasonable-accommodation) handbook section if you would like an accommodation due to your veteran status.

### Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging Learning & Development

- TBD

### Process for learning material and course creators

**Team members who might use this process include:** DIB and L&D team members, managers creating training for their teams, departments creating required compliance training, team members creating training for their peers or community, Developer Relations creating training for the wider GitLab community

1. When a new training is created or curated open up an issue using the [following template](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/people-group/dib-diversity-inclusion-and-belonging/diversity-and-inclusion/-/blob/master/.gitlab/issue_templates/QA_Training_DIB_Check.md). It is best to open this issue *as soon as you've begun building out the learning material** so that the DIB and L&D team can provide early guidance
1. Assign the issue to a DIB Team Member and a L&D team member - the assignees must not be someone who participated in creating or curating the training
1. The assignees will go through the content of the training and complete the QA process as outlined in the issue.
1. The content creator and assignees will use the issue to collaborate on and document improvements made to the content that align with quality check list above
1. When all 3 participants agree that the course has met our inclusion and learning standards, close the issue and proceed with adding the materials or course to GitLab Learn

## Community

GitLab team members are distributed across the globe, giving us access to an array of opportunity.
We encourage collaboration with global organizations and programs that support underrepresented individuals in the tech industry.
GitLab also provides additional support through the [GitLab Diversity Sponsorship program](https://about.gitlab.com/community/sponsorship/).
We offer funds to help support the event financially, and if the event is in a city we have a GitLab team member, we get hands-on by offering to coach and/or give a talk whenever possible.

We encourage organizers of events that are supported through our [GitLab Diversity Sponsorship program](https://about.gitlab.com/community/sponsorship/) to share [this sign up link](https://gitlab.fra1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_51J9D8skLbWqdil?Source=d&i) with attendees. Everyone can contribute.

## Definitions

- [Gender and Sexual Orientation Identity Definitions and FAQ](/handbook/people-group/orientation-identity/)
- [Leadership](/handbook/company/structure/#organizational-chart) is defined as director and above.
- [Geographically](/handbook/company/culture/inclusion/identity-data/) is defined as those countries we use in our identity data.
- Women is the term GitLab uses instead of "Female". "Female/Male" are gender terms often designated at birth. "Woman/Man" are gender terms based on self-identification. At GitLab, we define women based on how team members self-identify their gender in Workday.
- **Race** - To understand our representation, we want to do our best in having categories for race that team members can select where they are able to in some way identify with the options available. These definitions align with the EEOC:
  - **American Indian or Alaska Native** - A person having origins in any of the original peoples of North and South America (including Central America) and who maintains tribal affiliation or community attachment. This category includes people who indicate their race as American Indian, Alaska Native, Navajo, Blackfeet, Inupiat, Yup'ik, Central American Indian groups or South American Indian groups.
  - **Asian** - A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian subcontinent including but not limited to: Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam. This includes people who indicate their race as Asian Indian, Chinese, Filipino, Korean, Japanese, Vietnamese and or other not mentioned Asian identifies.
  - **Black** - A person having origins in any of the Black racial groups of Africa. Including people who indicate their race as Black or African American, Cape Coloreds, Carribean, Kenyan, Nigerian, or Haitian.
  - **Hispanic or LatinX** - A person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race. The term, "Spanish origin", can be used in addition to "Hispanic or Latino". Although not of Spanish-origin, Brazil is also included in this category due its inclusion in the LatinX definition.
  - **Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander** - A person having origins in any of the original people of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands. Included but not limited to people who reported their race as Fijian, Guamanian, Chamorro, Marshallese, Native Hawaiian, Samoan, Tongan or other Pacific Islander.
  - **Multiracial** - refers to two or more races as described in the listed categories.
  - **White** - A person having origins in any of the original people of Europe, the Middle East, or North Africa. Included but not limited to people who indicate their race as: White, Irish, German, Italian, Lebanese, Arab, Moroccan, or Caucasian.
- **Ethnicity**: Can be more broadly defined as "large groups of people classed according to common racial, national, tribal, religious, linguistic, or cultural origin or background."
  - For example people who are Black/African Descent can have a variety of ethnicities such as African,  African American, Afro-Caribbean, Afro-Latinx etc. Whilst physical characteristics can be similar there could be cultural differences.
- **Underrepresented Group** This can be defined as a group whose percentage of the population in a given group is lower than their percentage of the population of country, community, organization or otherwise.
  - An example of this at GitLab is: Women within Senior Leadership is still low compared to Men within Senior Leadership. Which meant that GitLab created the goal of 50% of all senior leadership should be women by December 2021 to address the imbalance within this underrepresented group.
- **TMRG (Team Member Resource Group)** - In other organizations, a TMRG can be an ERG (Employee Resource Group). TMRGs are voluntary, team member-led groups focused on fostering diversity, inclusion and belonging within GitLab. These groups help team members build stronger internal and external connections; offer social, educational, and outreach activities; create development opportunities for future leaders; and increase engagement among team members.
- **Ally** - A diversity, inclusion and belonging "ally" is someone who is willing to take action in support of another person, in order to remove barriers that impede that person from contributing their skills and talents in the workplace or community.
- **Allyship** - Is the state of being an ally, supporting or being a member of  groups or associations of the people you are an ally too. An example of this is someone who does not identify as part of the [LGBTQI+](https://socialprotection-humanrights.org/key-issues/disadvantaged-and-vulnerable-groups/lgbtqi/) community being a part of the TMRG and supporting the endeavors.
- **Unconscious bias** - Unconscious biases are stereotypes about certain groups of people that individuals form outside their own conscious awareness.
Nearly all our thoughts and actions are influenced, at least in part, by unconscious impulses. There's no reason bias should be out of scope. Categorizing people based on social and other characteristics is a powerful survival mechanism, as it helps to distinguish friends from foes and make quick "life or death" decisions based on "inner feeling". At the same time this is a fertile ground for growing stereotypes, prejudice, discrimination.
- **Psychological safety** - is defined by Amy Edmondson as a "shared belief held by members of a team that the team is safe for interpersonal risk taking".
It's not about being warm and fuzzy and sharing your feelings. It's about being comfortable admitting when you are wrong or have made a mistake as well as challenging each other for the better.

## Performance Indicators
