---
title: "Feature Readiness"
description: "Feature Readiness group within Developer Experience sub-department"
---

## Mission

To build and maintain a framework to ensure the readiness and consistent high quality of features being developed, maintained and delivered by GitLab. 

## Vision

To enable GitLab's development teams to follow the same readiness criteria for each feature developed and the ability to ensure the consistent high quality of each feature throughout each stage of the SDLC.

- Optimized and efficient feedback loops
  - Automate feature readiness policies with actionable feedback
  - The use of data to ensure critical user journeys meet quality scorecard expectations and feature readiness criteria
- Reduced cognitive load
  - Simplify operation of test tools and frameworks used for e2e testing
- Improved flow state
  - Define feature readiness policies that can be adopted to use by all development teams
  - Enable self-servicing capabilities of testing tools and test failure triage 

Engineers in this team support Feature Readiness projects.

## Team members

Engineering Manager: Kassandra Svoboda

| S.No     |                    |
|------    |-------------------------|
| 1        | Richard Chong (@richard.chong)   |
| 2        | Sanad Liaquat (@sliaquat)    |
| 3        | Sofia Vistas (@svistas)      |

## OKRs

Every quarter, the team commits to [Objectives and Key Results (OKRs)](/handbook/company/okrs/). The below shows current quarter OKRs and is updated regularly as the quarter progresses.

## Working with us

For individual questions please reach out to the team through our Slack channels.

### Slack Channels

| Channel | Purpose |
| :---: | :--- |
| [#g_feature_readiness](https://gitlab.slack.com/archives/C080HSGD162) | Channel to engage with the Feature Readiness Team |

## How we work

### Meetings and Scheduled Calls

Our preference is to work asynchronously, within our projects issues trackers.

The team does have a set of regular synchronous calls:

- Feature Readiness Team meeting
- 1-1s between the Individual Contributors and Engineering Manager

### Project Management

The majority of our [project management process is described at the Platforms level](/handbook/engineering/infrastructure/platforms/project-management/) and is shared between all Infrastructure Platform teams. Please read this first.

Project management links

- [Team board for Developer Experience: Performance Enablement](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/boards/8955771?label_name[]=team%3A%3Aperformance%20enablement)
- Team [project status epic](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/quality/-/epics/102)
- Team [roadmap epic](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/quality/-/epics/134)

#### Status Updates

- ASYNC weekly epic project status updates
