---
title: Webcasts
description: An overview of webcasts at GitLab, including processes for Zoom and Goldast.
twitter_image: '/images/tweets/handbook-marketing.png'
twitter_site: "@gitlab"
twitter_creator: "@gitlab"
---

---

## GitLab-Hosted Webcasts Calendar {#calendar}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

<figure>
<iframe src="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?height=600&amp;wkst=1&amp;bgcolor=%23B39DDB&amp;ctz=America%2FLos_Angeles&amp;src=Z2l0bGFiLmNvbV9uMnNibXZmMjlqczBzM3BiM2ozaHRwa3FmZ0Bncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t&amp;src=Z2l0bGFiLmNvbV8xcXZlNmc4MWRwOTFyOWhldnRrZmQ5cjA5OEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t&amp;src=Z2l0bGFiLmNvbV8xOGVqOHN0NmlxajZpYXB1NTNrajUzNHBsa0Bncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t&amp;color=%23039BE5&amp;color=%239E69AF&amp;color=%23009688&amp;title=All%20GitLab%20Virtual%20Events&amp;showCalendars=1" style="border:solid 1px #777" width="1000" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</figure>

[See calendar glossary here](/handbook/marketing/virtual-events/#calendar-glossary)

## Overview {#overview}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

There are 3 types of GitLab-hosted webcasts and workshops using the Zoom webcast license and Goldcast, with differing DRIs depending on the webcast goal and owner.

* **[Global Campaign Webcasts](/handbook/marketing/virtual-events/webcasts/#campaign-webcasts):** goal is net new customer acquisition, managed by Global Campaign Managers in **Goldcast**, aligned to campaign themes to drive Marketing Qualified Leads (MQLs) in target accounts.

* **[Technical Demo Series](/handbook/marketing/virtual-events/webcasts/#technical-demo-series):** goal is to increase conversion from Marketing Qualified Leads (MQLs) to Sales Accepted Opportunities (SAO). Tech Demos are managed by Regional Campaign Managers in **Goldcast** and new Tech Demo bundle themes are created in collaboration with the Developer Relations team

* **[Virtual Workshops](/handbook/marketing/virtual-events/webcasts/#field-workshops):** goal is to increase conversion/velocity of MQLs to SAO, and/or SAO to Closed Won, using hands-on labs with demo environment, capped registration, managed by Field Marketing in **Zoom**

## Global Campaign Webcasts {#campaign-webcasts}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

Global Campaign webcasts are managed, moderated, and executed by the Campaigns Team in Goldcast, focusing on campaign messaging and priorities as defined in the Marketing Activation House for each fiscal year.

### Submitting a campaign webcast idea {#campaigns-webcast-idea}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

Create a [webcast idea issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/demand-generation/campaigns/-/issues/new?issuable_template=idea-webcast) in the campaigns project.

* Campaign managers will consider the alignment to active and planned campaigns
* If the suggeted topic is approved, the campaign manager will change the status label from `status:plan` to `status:wip`, and run with the webcast
* The webcast owner will then begin creation of the epic and related issues, requesting work of relevant teams

### Creating a Global Campaigns Asana project
<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

* Info to be added about Asana project management

### Creating a Technical Demo Asana project

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

* Info to be added about Asana project management

## Virtual Workshops {#field-workshops}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

Virtual Workshops are managed and moderated by Field Marketing, working closely with Solution Architects and other GitLab team members.

For details regarding Virtual Workshops, please visit the [Field Marketing Page](/handbook/marketing/field-marketing/field-marketing-owned-virtual-events/#virtual-workshops-1).

## Best Practices {#webcast-best-practices}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

`Marketing Programs to review and update against "general virtual events best practices" page`

1. Give yourself at least 30 business days of promotion.
2. Send invitation emails 2 weeks out, 1 week out, and if needed 2 hours before event. Sample emails can be found here.
3. Only send promotional emails Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday for optimal results.
4. Send reminder emails to registrants the day before, and one hour before the event.
5. Host webcasts on a Wednesday or Thursday, see note below about scheduling.
6. Post links to additional, related resources during the event.
7. Include "contact us" information and a clear CTA at the end of the presentation.
8. Video recording of webcast uploaded to YouTube within 24 hours as event occurred.
9. Send the recording to all registrants, whether they attended or not within 48 hours post webcast.
10. Review Zoom's guide on [in person chat](https://support.zoom.com/hc/en/article?id=zm_kb&sysparm_article=KB0064400) which explains the various ways you can utilize the chat feature.

Review GitLab's general [virtual events best practices](/handbook/marketing/virtual-events/#best-practices) for additional suggestions on how to make your virtual event a success.

## Speaker Approval {#webcast-speaker-approval}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

Marketing Programs sometimes depend on GitLab's subject matter experts to deliver webcast presentations. However, we must ensure that when we ask a speaker to participate on a webcast that the work is approved. Please use the following guideline when asking a subject matter expert to participate on a webcast.

1. Have a high-level abstract of the content prepared before asking for a presenter.
2. Send the abstract to both the proposed speaker and their manager to review. A speaker is not considered booked unless they have approval from their manager.
3. Address and resolve any concerns regarding the abstract.
4. Once the manager approves and the speaker accepts, you can move forward with the webcast.

## Tips for Speakers {#speaker-tips}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

Here are some basic tips to help ensure that you have a good experience preparing for and presenting on a webcast.

### Before Committing {#speaker-before-committing}

Ask us any questions you have about the time commitment etc. and what exactly our expectations are. Talk about it with your manager if you're on the fence about your availability, bandwidth, or interest. Make sure you're both on the same page. We want this to be a meaningful professional development exercise for you, not a favor to us that you're lukewarm about — if you feel that way, none of will be able to do our best job. We'll be honest with you, so please do the same for us.

### Before the Dry Run {#speaker-before-dry-run}

Select and set up your presentation space. Pick a spot with good wifi, and we recommend setting up an external mic for better audio quality, although this is optional. If you will be presenting from your home, alert your spouse/roommates of the time/date & ask them to be out of the house if necessary. Depending on your preferences and comfort level with public speaking, run through the script several times.

### Before the Presentation {#speaker-before-presentation}

Try to get a good sleep the night before, and, if the presentation is in the morning, wake up early enough to run through your notes at least once. Review our [Positioning FAQ](/handbook/marketing/positioning-faq/), or keep the page handy in case you are asked in the Q&A about how GitLab compares to our competitors.

## Technical Demo Series {#technical-demo-series}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

Technical demos are aligned with the GTM Motions and cover a range of topics relevant to leads in consideration & purchase stages.
Demo series run on a bi-weekly cadence as live or pre-recorded sessions on Goldcast Platform. Participants have the flexibility to engage in either written or live Q&A sessions.

**Key objectives:**

* **Pipeline Acceleration:** Increase conversion from Marketing Qualified Leads (MQL) to Sales Accepted Opportunities (SAO).
* **Prospect and Customer Education:** Inform our prospects and existing customers about the value offered by GitLab's features.

### Technical demo landing pages {#technical-demo-landing-pages}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

Technical Demo Series are managed by Marketing Campaign team, in collaboration with DevRel and Solution Architects who deliver the content.

Global Campaign Managers are responsible for creating technical demo bundles as a pivotal element within the overarching Go-To-Market (GTM) Campaign strategy. Regional Campaign Managers are responsible for activation in the region as integral part of the regional demand generation plans.

Regional Campaign Managers are responsible for updating the technical demo page through our CMS platform - Contentful:

* [Global Technical Demo Page](https://about.gitlab.com/gitlab-technical-demo-series/)

Instructions video on adding/removing the technical demos from landing page are available [here](https://youtu.be/yhPGuyRkTno).

## Logistical Setup {#logistical-setup}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

## Adding your webcasts into the calendar {#add-to-calendar}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

### Goldcast Webcast Calendar {#bt-calendar}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

[Goldcast webcast calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/1?cid=Y19xdTVqMzRsZ2ZrcmlybmM5aGx1MWRkams0MEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t) is used to log all planned and scheduled Goldcast webcasts and their related dry runs. **The purpose of the Goldcast webcast calendar is to avoid scheduling overlapping webcasts and to provide visibility into all Goldcast webcasts across teams.**

**Adding to the calendar:**

1. Add tentative webcasts to the calendar with `[Hold]`
   * ex. `[Hold] TALK | 7 secrets of effective GitOps`
   * For dry run (practice) webcasts, add `DR` (ex. `[Hold DR] TALK | 7 secrets of effective gitops`)
   * Include a link to the issue in the event description
1. When the date/time/speakers of the webcast has been confirmed, remove `[Hold]` from the event title
   * ex. `TALK | 7 secrets of effective GitOps` or `RP | 7 secrets of effective GitOps`
   * Add the time of the webcast on the calendar event (if it is still an all-day event)
   * Add the epic link, and remove the issue link, in the calendar description
   * Add all presenters (internal GitLab team members and external speakers)
   * Add Goldcast login information for presenters

### Zoom Webcast Calendar {#zoom-calendar}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

The Field Marketing team manages the [zoom webcast license calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar?cid=Z2l0bGFiLmNvbV8xcXZlNmc4MWRwOTFyOWhldnRrZmQ5cjA5OEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t), which will be used to log all planned and scheduled Field Marketing hosted webcasts/workshops and their related dry runs. **The purpose of the webcast calendar is to ensure Field Marketers don't schedule overlapping webcasts when using the shared webcast license and to provide executive visibility into all webcasts being hosted.**

Anyone desiring to reserve the zoom license for a webcast must submit a [Zoom license date request](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/demand-generation/campaigns/-/issues/new?issuable_template=zoom-license-date-request) - please note that speakers must be secured and all details in the issue must be provided or the request will be rejected.

**Planned webcasts:**

1. As soon as an issue is created for a webcast request, add the planned webcast to the webcast calendar by creating an event on the day you plan to host the webcast. For webcasts that are still in planning, use the following naming convention `[Hold WC Hosted] Webcast title` (e.g: `[Hold WC Hosted] Mastering CI`) and create it as an all-day event (no time slot selected). Make sure to also include the link to the issue in the calendar description.

**Confirmed Webcasts**

1. Once the date/time of the webcast has been confirmed, go to your calendar event and remove `Hold` from the event title `[WC Hosted] Webcast title` (e.g: `[WC Hosted] Mastering CI`). Specify the time on the calendar event and swap the issue link in the calendar description with the Epic link. *Note: In the spirit of efficiency, please be sure to add all presenters (GitLab team members and external speakers), the epic or issue (if you have one) and your Zoom invite info to the calendar invite so you're not having to create multiple calendar invites.*
1. Make sure to also add dry runs to the webcast calendar. When creating the webcast dry run event(s), please use the following naming convention `[DR WC Hosted] Webcast title` (e.g: `[DR WC Hosted] Mastering CI`) and specify the date/time on the calendar event.

## Goldcast Webcasts {#golcast-webcasts}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

### Quick Links {#goldcast-quick-links}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

* [Goldcast rollout session slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Iyw8XjrkmFpiLvehjqMr4TUSJ4qmjHBFGs0HZ0bZcRI/edit#slide=id.g139e148a631_0_188)
* [Dedicated Goldcast handbook page](/handbook/marketing/marketing-operations/goldcast/)
* [Goldcast Support Portal](https://Goldcastsupport.force.com/Support/s/article/Goldcast-Contact-Support)
* [Goldcast Knowledge Center](https://Goldcastsupport.force.com/Support/s/knowledge)

### Types of Goldcast Webcasts {#goldcast-types}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

* **Live Audio and Video (with Screen Share)**: This option is known as the Video Presenter Bridge. Multiple presenters can present a live webcast event using Webcam, PC Microphone, or Dial-in. Live screen share is also available to presenters if they wish to share their screen during the presentation.
* **Live Audio (no Screen Share)**: Multiple presenters can present a live event using the telephone. Presenters will dial into the Goldcast presenter phone bridge for the live webinar. Live screen share is not available with this event type.
* **Broadcast Video**: Choose this option to incorporate broadcast quality video into your live events. This option requires video encoding gear external to Webcast Elite. The Broadcast Video option is available at an additional cost and will need to be enabled for your account.
* **Simu-live**: Choose this option if you wish to pre-record your entire event and deliver it to a live audience at a designated date and time. You can interact with the live audience through written Q&A during playback of the pre-recorded presentation. The event will end immediately after the pre-recorded playback has ended.
  * Simu-lives must be created in advance. No changes can be made two hours before the scheduled live time.
* **Simu-live with Rollover to Live Audio**: Also known as Sim-2-live, provides presenters the opportunity to address comments and questions verbally with a live audience once the pre-recorded presentation is done playing. For this event type select, Simu-live then enable the Rollover to Video and Audio toggle under Main Details.
* **Recurring Simu-live**: Provides an efficient option to create one event and run it multiple times for recurring presentations such as daily demos, weekly campaign presentations, etc.  Attendees can choose the date they wish to attend. All registrant and attendee data will roll up into a single report.
* **On Demand**: Choose this option to create a pre-recorded On Demand event. There is no interaction with a live audience.

---
<!-- NOTE: THE DOCUMENTATION BELOW IS FOR ZOOM ONLY!!! Goldcast & WEBEX IS BELOW IN THIS HANDBOOK PAGE -->
---
<!-- NOTE: THE REST OF THE DOCUMENTATION IS FOR Goldcast ONLY!!! -->

## Goldcast Webcasts {#Goldcast}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

### Quick Links {#0n24-quick-links}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

* [Goldcast Webcast Login Portal](https://wcc.Goldcast.com/webcast/login)
* [Goldcast Knowledge Centre](https://Goldcastsupport.force.com/Support/s/knowledge)

### Goldcast Event Types {#Goldcast-types}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

* **Live Video (Video and audio with screen share):** traditional live webinar with speakers and Q&A.
  * Pre-event registration takes place
  * The event automatically converts to on-demand upon completion
* **Goldcast Live Audio (no Screen Share):** multiple presenters can present a live webcast using the telephone. Presenters will dial into the Goldcast presenter phone bridge for the live event. Live screen share is not available with this event type.
  * Pre-event registration takes place
  * The event automatically converts to on-demand upon completion
* **Simu-live (written Q&A)**: choose this option if you wish to pre-record entire event and deliver it to a live audience at a designated date and time. **Note**: Simu-lives must be created in advance. No changes can be made two hours before the scheduled live time.
  * Pre-event registration takes place
  * At time of webcast, a recording is played.
  * You can interact with the live audience through written Q&A during playback of the pre-recorded presentation.
  * The event will end immediately after the pre-recorded playback has ended, therefore it is best to do a mock Q&A and inform attendees that any questions will be individually addressed after the webinar, allowing for seamless follow up by SDRs.
  * The event automatically converts to on-demand upon completion
* **Simu-live (with rollover to live Q&A)**: also known as Sim-2-live, provides presenters the opportunity to address comments and questions verbally with a live audience once the pre-recorded presentation is done playing. For this event type select, Simu-live then enable the Rollover to Video and Audio toggle under Main Details.
  * Pre-event registration takes place
  * At time of webcast, a recording is played.
  * You can interact with the live audience through written Q&A during playback of the pre-recorded presentation and at the end of the webcast addressing questions live.
  * The event automatically converts to on-demand upon completion.
* **Recurring Simu-live**: this webcast type provides an efficient option to create one event and run it multiple times for recurring presentations such as daily demos, weekly campaign presentations, etc.  Attendees can choose the date they wish to attend. All registrant and attendee data will roll up into a single report.
* **On Demand**: essentially an on-demand webcast, no interaction with a live audience.
  * No pre-registration

## LIVE webcast registration and tracking - Goldcast

### Organizing Goldcast webcast epics and issues {#Goldcast-epics-issues}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

* **Confirm Date:** The webcast idea issue (date request issue) must be complete and confirmed before creation of the epic, issues, and workback.
* **Campaign Webcast Epic:** campaign manager creates webcast epic (using code below)
* **Related Issues:** campaign manager creates the issues as designated in the GANTT sheet, and associates to the campaign webcast epic
* **Technical Demo Series** After the epic for a technical demo is created, add it to the appropriate parent epic. This allows us to see all of the related technical demos at a glance. Parent epics can be found [here](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-com/marketing/-/epics/3553) and are denoted with `Top Level Epic` (ex: [FY24 Tech Demo Series] Automated Software Delivery)

[View the webcast workback timeline GANTT here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1A4c2OodEAsOlN4Ek-rBiLlwkdF0AvX5YBiY4mhkZd-M/edit#gid=666473040)

```markdown
<!-- Naming convention: [Webcast Title] - [3-letter Month] [Date], [Year] -->

## [GANTT >>]() - owner to copy from this template: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1A4c2OodEAsOlN4Ek-rBiLlwkdF0AvX5YBiY4mhkZd-M/edit#gid=666473040

## [Landing Page >>]() - `to be added when live`

#### :key: Key Details
* **Webcast DRI:**
* **Speaker(s) and Moderator:**
* **Official Webcast Name:**
* **Official Webcast Date:**
* **Sales Segment:** `Large, Mid-Market, or SMB`
* **Lifecycle Stage/Lead Status:** `Raw, Inquiry, MQL, Accepted, Qualifying, Qualified, Nurture`
* **Sales Region:** `AMER, EMEA, APAC`
* **Sales Territory (if specific):**
* **Goal:** `Please be specific on the KPI this is meant to impact. For example, drive MQLs against named account list, increase velocity of MQLs > SAOs, increase velocity of early stage opps to close.`
* [landing page copy]() - `doc to be added by Marketing Programs` ([clone the template here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xHnLKPCaXrpEe1ccRh_7-IqgNbAlzQsZVc-wr1W4ng8/edit#))
* [ ] [main salesforce campaign]()
* [ ] [main marketo program]()
* [ ] [Goldcast webcast preview link]()

## :books: Issue creation

<details>
<summary>Expand below for checkboxes of issues to be created, use the GANTT to calculate the due dates.</summary>

* [ ] [Program tracking](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/demand-generation/campaigns/-/issues/new?issuable_template=campaigns-program-tracking) issue created
* [ ] [Webcast dry run schedule](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/demand-generation/campaigns/-/issues/new?issuable_template=campaigns-webcast-dryrun-sched) issue created
* [ ] [Landing page and automation](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/demand-generation/campaigns/-/issues/new?issuable_template=campaigns-landing-page) issue created
* [ ] [Invitation and reminder](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/demand-generation/campaigns/-/issues/new?issuable_template=campaigns-email-invitation-reminder-follow-up) issues created
* [ ] Organic social issue created for social media manager
* [ ] [Follow-up email](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/demand-generation/campaigns/-/issues/new?issuable_template=campaigns-email-invitation-reminder-follow-up) issue created
* [ ] [Add to nurture stream](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/demand-generation/campaigns/-/issues/new?issuable_template=campaigns-email-nurture-add) issue created
* [ ] [Host dry run](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/demand-generation/campaigns/-/issues/new?issuable_template=campaigns-webcast-dryrun-host) issue created
* [ ] [Prepare for webcast](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/demand-generation/campaigns/-/issues/new?issuable_template=campaigns-webcast-prep) issue created
* [ ] [On-demand switch issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/demand-generation/campaigns/-/issues/new?issuable_template=campaigns-post-webcast) issue created
</details>

/label ~mktg-demandgen ~dg-campaigns ~"Webcast - GitLab Hosted" ~"Webcast" ~"mktg-status::wip"

```

## Goldcast Webcast Setup {#Goldcast-setup}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

### Step 1: Configure Goldcast {#configure-Goldcast}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

*Note: Goldcast Elite license is used for all field marketing and campaigns internally hosted webcasts. Therefore, when a webcast is requested please confirm there is not going to be a conflict between the pre-scheduled sessions - both live and dry-run - using that license by checking the [webcast gcal](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=Y19xdTVqMzRsZ2ZrcmlybmM5aGx1MWRkams0MEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t). Schedule no less than 30min between sessions (before & after) so there is less chance of conflict and allows for a buffer.*

**Setting-up a SEMU-live Goldcast Webcast**
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TPxiPsTNMzA" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Setting-up a LIVE Goldcast Webcast**
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/oJIFE9IKWpg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

1. **LOGIN**: log into [Goldcast Webcast Portal](https://wcc.Goldcast.com/webcast/login).
2. **TEMPLATE**: search for a template based on the event type. In the right column under "Actions" select the copy icon to clone a template. When cloning an event, all media files will transfer to the new webcast.
      * Live Event:
         * [Template (A)](https://wcc.Goldcast.com/webcast/update/3812772) - Standard event template - Trial Banner
         * [Template (B)](https://wcc.Goldcast.com/webcast/update/4008047) - Standard event template - Trial Tanuki
      * Simu-Live Event:
         * [Template (A)](https://wcc.Goldcast.com/webcast/update/3831579) - XL Media Player (no slide widget) - Trial Banner
         * [Template (B)](https://wcc.Goldcast.com/webcast/update/4008048) - XL Media Player (no slide widget) - Trial Tanuki
**Note**: all the templates are tagged with Template and that after cloning the cloned program should have that tag removed
3. **KEY FIELDS**: update new program fields: Title, Date, Time, Duration, Timezone. Change event type if needed to Simu-live. Select "Create Event" to save and generate Event ID and Webcast URLs.
4. **TIMEZONE**: select a drop-down timezone option with city/country instead of a generic GMT+ time zone. Generic time zones do not update with time changes, such as Daylight Savings Time.
5. **MEDIA FILE**: Replace Media File with new event PPT in the Overview tab, or by following Presenter's URL and loging in as Producer. You can access this by clicking on the menu in the menu icon in the top right corner and choosing Setup).
    * IMPORTANT! For the Semu-live webcast you'll need to upload and publish your mp4 recording no later then 2 hours before the scheduled start. Please login as producer using the Presenter's URL, click on the Setup at the bottom on the screen and choose Presenter Media, under the Media tab. Upload your video, go back to previous screen and click on Publish button.
6. **PANELISTS**: panelists and presenters will share Presenters Link (can be found in the Event URLs list). By following this link they'll need to submit their name and email address and login as Presenters into Goldcast console.
7. *Optional* **EMAILS**: If applicable, edit the confirmation and reminder emails under the email setting tab.
    * Make sure the registration confirmation email and the reminder emails are set to send from Goldcast.
8. *Optional* **POLLING**: If applicable, add polling questions to the webcast by following the instructions in the video below. Note there is a character limit on poll answer options of 40 characters.
9. **ATTENDEE & PRESENTER MAX**: All live events and experiences are capped by default at 2,500 live attendees and max of 10 presenters.

   **Adding poll questions to a webcast**
   <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/DIo88jv88tA" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

10. **ADDING WEBCAST SURVEY**: In the tools manager located in the `Goldcast Console` choose `Take Survey` and add it to your event console. You can then set it to appear as post event survey, during the webcast, or both in the `Configuration` settings tab.
    * Note. Although there is no standard survey template built into our templates currently, you can copy/paste from this [standard post-webcast survey](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kBG_eXRLYRmgqH2DIpapOUbCkOxjSsRc_f6m8nXOxxE/edit) we are using for tech demos.

### Step 2: Set up the webcast in Marketo/SFDC and connect to Goldcast {#Goldcast-mkto-setup}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

#### Create program in Marketo - Goldcast {#Goldcast-marketo-program}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

1. Create the webcast program in Marketo by navigating to the [Templates - Goldcast](https://engage-ab.marketo.com/?munchkinId=194-VVC-221#/classic/MF12119A1) and select between webcast and workshop.
1. Right-click the appropriate template, and select "clone"
1. Next to "Clone To", choose `A campaign folder`.
1. (non-technical demos) For "Name", add the MKTO program name (this is also the SFDC campaign name). Use the following format: `YYYYMMDD_{Webcast Title}_[Region - only if applicable]`. For example, `20170418_MovingToGit`.
1. (technical demos)  For "Name", add the MKTO program name (this is also the SFDC campaign name). Use the following format: `YYYYMMDD_{gtmcampaign}_{Webcast Title}_techdemo_[Region - only if applicable]`. For example, `20220324_devopsgtm_BuildingMLApps_techdemo_APAC`.
1. Under "Folder", choose the appropriate quarter within the  `GitLab-Hosted Campaign Webcasts` or `GitLab-Hosted Workshops` folders.
1. Click "Create" (note - you will create the SFDC campaign from Marketo in the next step!)

#### Create campaign in Salesforce - Goldcast {#Goldcast-sfdc-campaign}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

1. In the Marketo program Summary view, you will see `Salesforce Campaign Sync:` with a link that says "not set".
1. Click on "not set"
1. Where it says "None", click the drop-down and choose "Create New"
1. The Marketo program name will auto-fill for the name (for consistency across both systems)
1. In the "Description", add a link to the epic
1. Click "Save"
1. NOW you will navigate to the Campaign in SFDC to do a quick review - [Shortcut to Campaigns](https://gitlab.my.salesforce.com/701/o)
1. Click into the SFDC campaign
1. Change the campaign owner to the webcast DRI
1. Change the status to `in progress`
1. Edit the Budgeted Cost (required) to cost of webcast, or "1" if there is no cost associated
1. Click save

#### Connecting Goldcast Web Events to Marketo Programs {#Goldcast-marketo-connect}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

*After completing the creation of an Goldcast web event, the next step is to connect the webinar to Marketo. Unlike other tools, the Goldcast room and Marketo program do not need to be connected via the Event Partner field on the Marketo program. All data transfer is done via the Event ID and smart campaigns.*

1. From the previous event set up, please be sure to have the `Event ID` and `Audience URL` handy.
1. Navigate to the Marketo template folder `Templates - Goldcast`. Located in this folder are program templates Designed with triggers to work with Goldcast's Marketo custom object. Make a copy of the needed program type template in the appropriate folder.
1. Next step will be to connect the Marketo program to the Goldcast webcast. In the Smart Campaigns folder of the newly cloned program, add the Goldcast Event ID to the following smart campaigns on the Added to Goldcast Attendee trigger filter:
      * `04 Goldcast Processing - Attended`
      * `04 Goldcast Processing - Follow Up Requested`
      * `04 Goldcast Processing - No Show`
      * `04 Goldcast Processing - On Demand`
1. Next activate the following smart trigger campaigns:
      * `01 Registration Flow (choose single or multi)`
      * `00 Interesting Moments`
      * `01a Registration flow (single timeslot)` or `01b Registration Flow (Multi-timeslot)`
      * `04 Goldcast Processing - Attended`
      * `04 Goldcast Processing - Follow Up Requested`
      * `04 Goldcast Processing - On Demand`. Only activate this smart campaign if it is appropriate for the webinar, such as in the event the webinar will be left available for on-demand viewing.
      * `04 Goldcast Processing - No Show`. No Show will not be activated as a trigger, but as a batch campaign scheduled to run 6 hours after the event has completed.
1. Before continuing on, check if it seems appropriate to set any of the local assets to expire. Appropriate items to set an expiration would be, for example, smart campaigns like the `04 Goldcast Processing - Attended` campaign, which is no longer needed after the event ends.
1. Update the program tokens as needed within the program. All email assets and landing pages are token dependent.
1. **Important tokens to review**:
      * `{{my.GoldcastURL}}`: This token needs to be updated as upon registration the registrant is sent an automatic email with the Audience URL attached to this token.
      * `{{my.key}}`: This token needs to have the correct alphanumerical value taken from the Audience URL for the registration confirmation email to trigger.
      * `{{my.webcastDate}}`, `{{my.webcastTitle}}` etc. are standard to update.
      * `{{my.Goldcastpassword}}`: Update this with the webinar password. If no password was set up in the console, completely remove token from registration confirmation email as it is not necessary.
1. Please note, the `Registration Flow` smart campaigns will send out the Audience URL for the event and have tokens arranged to share event passwords.
1. Operational emails such as `Registration Confirmation` and `Reminder emails` will be sent from Goldcast, make sure these are activated in the Goldcast program (all template already have them activated).

### Step 3.A: Update all other standard Marketo Tokens {#Goldcast-marketo-tokens}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

* `{{my.bullet1}}`-`{{my.bullet4}}`- bullet copy with approved [character limits](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dKVIZGbbOLoR5BdCqXqCQ40qJlQNif9waTiHc8yWggQ/edit#gid=43971442)
* `{{my.emailConfirmationButtonCopy}}`  - copy for the email confirmation (when on demand), leave as `Watch now`
* `{{my.formButtonCopy}}` - copy for the form button, leave as `Register now` (when switching to on-demand, this will change to `Watch now`)
* `{{my.formHeader}}` - copy for header of form, leave as `Save your spot today!` (when switching to on-demand, this will change to `View the webcast today!`)
* `{{my.introParagraph}}` - intro paragraph to be used in landing page and nurture email, with approved [character limits](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dKVIZGbbOLoR5BdCqXqCQ40qJlQNif9waTiHc8yWggQ/edit#gid=43971442)
* `{{my.ondemandUrl}}` - skip updating in initial registration page setup (update during on-demand switch), Pathfactory link WITHOUT the `https://` NOR the email tracking part (`lb_email=`)
  * Example of correct link to include: `learn.gitlab.com/gartner-voc-aro/gartner-voc-aro` - the code in the Marketo template assets will create the URL `https://learn.gitlab.com/gartner-voc-aro/gartner-voc-aro?lb_email={{lead.email address}}&{{my.utm}}`
  * Note that both parts of this url include custom URL slugs which should be incorporated into all pathfactory links for simplicity of tracking paramaeters
* `{{my.socialImage}}` - image that would be presented in social, slack, etc. preview when the URL is shared, this image is provided by design/social, leave the default unless presented with webcast specific image.
* `{{my.speaker1Company}}` token with speaker 1's company name
* `{{my.speaker1ImageURL}}` token with speaker 1's image url in marketo design studio
* `{{my.speaker1JobTitle}}` token with speaker 1's job title
* `{{my.speaker1Name}}` token with speaker 1's full name
* REPEAT this for speaker 2 and 3. If there are more or less speakers, follow the instructions below at the end of the general webcast setup.
* `{{my.utm}}` - UTM to track traffic to the proper campaign in reporting dashboards (append integrated campaign utm or program name, if webcast is not part of an integrated campaign, to the utm campaign token)
* `{{my.valueStatement}}` token with the short value statement on what the viewer gains from the webcast, this ties into the follow up emails and must meet the max/min requirements of the [character limit checker](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dKVIZGbbOLoR5BdCqXqCQ40qJlQNif9waTiHc8yWggQ/edit#gid=1471341556)
@@ -883,66 +923,27 @@ PUBLISHING
* `{{my.webcastTime}}` token with the webcast time in local timezone/UTC timezone.
* `{{my.webcastTitle}}` token with the webcast title.

### Step 3.B: Create the landing page {#Goldcast-marketo-lp}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

* When you cloned the webcast template, and updated the Marketo tokens, your landing page is almost ready to go!
  * Under "Assets" right-click on `Registration Page` and hover over `URL Tools` > `Edit URL Settings`
  * Use the format `webcast-topic` (or `webcast-topic-region` if region is relevant) - ex. `webcast-mastering-cicd` or `webcast-mastering-cicd-italian`
* Complete the same steps for the `Thank You Page`
  * Use the format `webcast-topic-thank-you` (or `webcast-topic-region-thank-you` if region is relevant) - ex. `webcast-mastering-cicd-thank-you` or `webcast-mastering-cicd-italian-thank-you`

### Schedule your Goldcast practice session (Dry Run) {#Goldcast-practice-session}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

* Once an event is created, the presenter link becomes active until the live event. It's unnecessary to schedule an additional dry run event.
* Share the Presenter URL (which can be found in your Event URLs list in Goldcast anfter event is created) to dry run participants.
      * Roles:
         - Producers have the ability to take the event live and have additional admin functionalities such as media player configuration and building poll questions.
         - Presenters have limited admin abilities and can all advance slides during  the presentation. If screen sharing is part of the presentation, a driver is prompted the first time a user shares their screen. It's best to test this function in advance, especially for users who are required to VPN into their device. Some VPNs will limit this functionality.
         - Q&A: this role is only available for simu-live events; simu-live events will auto-start at the webcast start time, speakers/SMEs can use this role to answer questions via chat.

### Monitoring Simu-live Webcasts {#monitoring-simu-live-webcasts}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

* Simu-live webcasts are entirely pre-recorded and will play to a live audience at your chosen date and time. While the presentation plays to the live audience, you may have Q&A moderators log in to monitor the event and answer questions in real-time via text using the Q&A tool. Up to 12 people can log in at a time as Q&A Moderators.
* Moderators will use the Present URL to log in and have full access to the Q&A, Team Chat, and Attendee Chat and will be able to listen and watch the webcast in the live interface.
* The webcast will start automatically at the chosen start time. A Simu-Live in Progress message will appear in the top corner of the live interface for your Q&A moderators so they know when the webcast has begun.
* There is no dial-in number or phone bridge for the Q&A moderators while the webinar is live, but they can communicate using the Team Chat. Team Chat messages are not visible to the audience but are captured in the webinar reports.
* The webcast will end automatically after the recorded portion has played out. The event archive will be available a few hours later for your audience to watch on-demand.
* If you wish for the audience console to remain open after the presentation is complete to allow attendees additional time to submit questions or download certificates, consider extending the event by recording extra silence on the last slide so the console will remain open.
      * Note: The Block Attendee option in the Attendee List tool WILL NOT be available during standard Simu-live events.

### Monitoring Sim-2-Live Webcasts {#monitoring-sim-2-live-webcasts}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

* Sim-2-live webcasts are Simu-live webcasts with the Rollover to Live box checked, providing live time at the end of the recording to address questions. Setup and recording will be the same for both, the differences come when the webcast is playing out live to the audience.
* Sim-2-live webcasts also start automatically at the chosen start time. And after the pre-recorded portion of the webcast plays out, the system will automatically switch to a live webcast.
* While the pre-recorded portion plays to the live audience, Q&A will be text only, but your presenters can address questions from the audience both verbally and via text once the rollover to live occurs.
* Your presenting team will be able to log in for the webcast starting 45 minutes before the set start time, using the Present URL.
* Up to 10 live presenters (a mix of Producers and Presenter roles) can log in at a time.
      * Note: Every Sim-2-live event MUST have at least one presentation team member login as a Producer to stop the broadcast after the live portion is complete.

### Sim-2-Live Webcasts - roles {#sim-2-live-webcasts-roles}

* All three roles (listed below) will be available for Sim-2-live webcasts:
      * Roles:
         - **Producer.** Producers have all the same functionality presenters do, plus the ability to change the webcam layouts in the Media Player and stop the broadcast.
         - **Presenter.** Can speak to the audience during the rollover to the live portion, use the Q&A, Team Chat, Attendee Chat, Whiteboarding Tools, Highlight/Center Engagement Tools, Screen Share, and Pulse Check.
         - **Q&A Moderator.** Can use the Q&A, Team Chat, and Attendee Chat.

### Goldcast Webcast Invitations {#0n24-email-invitations}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

1. Update emails `Invitation 1 - 2 weeks prior`,  `Invitation 2 - 1 week prior` , and if needed `Invitation 3 - Day before` with relevant copies related to the webcast.
   * *Note: We normally use the same copy for all 3 emails and simply tweak the templated subject lines to sound more like "Reminders".*
2. Approve copy and send samples to the requester, and the presenter (if different from requester).
3. Go to the `List` folder and edit the `Target List` smart list and input the names of past similar programs and applicable program statuses to the `Member of program` filter. This will make sure people that have attended programs with similar topics in the past are included in the invite.
   * Note: We may uplevel this logic to include webcast invitations within active nurture programs to limit the overhead for invitation emails.

### Add the webcast to the /events/ and /resources/ pages {#Goldcast-webpage-listings}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

* To add the webcast to the /events/ page follow this [step by step guide](/handbook/marketing/events/#how-to-add-events-to-aboutgitlabcomevents).
* To add the webcast to the /resources/ page follow this [step by step guide](/https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/marketing/demand-generation/campaigns/content-in-campaigns/#add-to-resources-page).

### Goldcast Webcast Testings / QA {#Goldcast-webcast-testing}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

Submit a test lead using your GitLab email on the LIVE landing page to make sure the registration is tracked appropriately in the Marketo program and you get a confirmation email from Goldcast.

**Doing a QA for your Goldcast Webcast Registration Page**
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/3k4FUe6_LXw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Switching Goldcast Webcasts to On-Demand {#Goldcast-ondemand-switch}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

Goldcast will automatically convert the video to on-demand in the Goldcast platform. The steps below allow us to further leverage the webcast in Pathfactory. If you are going to drive to Goldcast directly for On-demand viewing (such as for large corporate events), skip to the instructions below starting at `Using Goldcast for On-Demand Viewing`.

1. **Vimeo**: vimeo provides an ads free user expierence, therefore should be primary video platform used for on-demand recording uploads. To request an upload, open [an issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/inbound-marketing/global-content/digital-production/-/issues/new?issuable_template=upload-request) with Digital Production Team.
   * Instructions on uploading Vimeo videos to Pathfactory can be found [here](/handbook/marketing/marketing-operations/pathfactory/content-library/#vimeo-links)
1. **YouTube**: upload the recording to our main GitLab channel:
   * Fill in the title with the webcast title matching the Marketo token (`{{my.webcastTitle}}`)
   * Fill in the description with the short description matching the Marketo tokens (`{{my.contentDescription}}`)
   * Make sure the video is set as `Unlisted` so only people with the URL to the video can find it
1. **YouTube**: Once the recording has been uploaded, copy the video link on the right
1. **Pathfactory**: Login to PathFactory and add the YouTube or Vimeo link to Pathfactory as new content by following the instructions outlined [here](/handbook/marketing/marketing-operations/pathfactory).

#### Converting the webcast to an On-Demand gated asset - Goldcast {#zoom-on-demand-switch}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

**🤩 NEW! In Marketo:**

1. **Vimeo**: Upload the recording to Vimeo

   * Fill in the title with the webcast title matching the Marketo token (`{{my.webcastTitle}}`)
   * Fill in the description with the short description matching the Marketo tokens (`{{my.contentDescription}}`)

1. **Vimeo**: Once the recording has been uploaded, copy the video embed link in Vimeo. Instructions on adjusting the privacy settings of your video to embed in specific domains like Pathfactory can be found [here](/handbook/marketing/marketing-operations/pathfactory/content-library/#vimeo-links)
1. **Pathfactory**: Login to PathFactory and add the copied Vimeo link to Pathfactory as new content by following the instructions outlined [here](https://support.pathfactory.com/kb/add-content/).
1. **Marketo**: Navigate to the webcast program and update the following My Tokens

   * Update the `formButtonCopy` token to be `Watch now`
   * Update the `formHeaderCopy` token to be `Watch the webcast today`
   * Update the `ondemandUrl` token with the Pathfactory link
     * This URL should *not* contain `https://` (it should begin with `learn.gitlab.com/`)
     * This URL should *not* contain any `?` question marks (if it does, you did not update the custom URL slug) - [WATCH THE EXPLAINER VIDEO](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHgR33cNeJg)
     * This URL should *not* contain the Pathfactory tracking parameter `lb_email=` (this is already incorporated into all assets of the Marketo program template)

1. **Marketo**: In the Marketo program, right click on the "Registration Page" and choose `Edit Draft`

   * On the right side rail, under "Elements" right click on the "Form Custom" element and choose `Edit`
   * The form should currently be set to the Webcast form (`FORM 1592: webcast` or relevant localized form) - you will change this to be `FORM 2076: On-demand Webcast`
   * Change the "Follow-up Type" to be `Landing Page`
   * Change the "Follow-up Page" to be the thank you page in your program (begin to type in the Marketo program name and select your thank you page)

1. **Marketo**: Send sample of the "On-demand Autoresponder" email to your inbox

   * Right click on the email and choose `Send Sample`
   * Expand advanced settings, under "Sample person for tokens" begin to type in your test lead email address. This will pull in the email address to review that the tracking is working properly in your email.
   * For "Send To:" choose your email address (or type next to the `*` asterisk)

1. **Your Inbox**: Review the sample email in your inbox

   * Check all email copy
   * Click all links and confirm they are not broken
   * Click the `Watch now` CTA and confirm that your email address is in the URL displayed (this happens quickly and disappears in the URL, so watch carefully!)
   * :thumbs-up: If all of the above apply, move on to activating the smart campaigns!

1. **Marketo**: Update the smart campaigns (activate and deactivate)
   * Under "Schedule" on the `01a Registration Flow (single timeslot)` smart campiagn, click `Deactivate` once the webcast has completed.
   * On the `04 Goldcast Processing - On Demand - Goldcast` smart campaign - Smart List, add your Goldcast `eventid`. Flow: it's all set! For your first few, feel free to review the flows (but they are all using tokens, so it should be ready to go automatically). Go to schedule and click `Activate`.
   * On the `04 Goldcast Processing - On Demand - Pathfactory` smart campaign - Smart List:
       * The second trigger for Fills out Form should be set to Form Name is "Form 2074: PF General". In Referrer contains, enter the Pathfactory asset name slug. For example guide-to-devops.
       * The third trigger for Fills out Form should be set to Form Name is "Pathfactory Webhook". In Referrer contains, enter the Pathfactory asset name slug. For example guide-to-devops.
       * Filter 1 - Filled Out Form should already be set properly. This will be Form Name is `FORM 2076: On-demand Webcast`. Web Page is (the name of your landing page).
       * Filter 2 - Filled Out Form should be set to Form Name is "Form 2074: PF General". In Referrer contains, enter the Pathfactory asset name slug. For example guide-to-devops.
       * Filter 3 - Filled out Form should be set to Form Name is "Pathfactory Webhook". In Referrer contains, enter the Pathfactory asset name slug. For example guide-to-devops. Date of Activity should already be set to in the past 1 hour.
       * Filter 4 - Pathfactory Engagement Time greater than 600 is set as the default. 600 is the Pathfactory view threshold for Webcasts.
       * Advanced filters will be set to 1 or 2 or (3 and 4)
   * Flow: it's all set! For your first few, feel free to review the flows (but they are all using tokens, so it should be ready to go automatically)
   * Under "Schedule" on the `04 Goldcast Processing - On Demand - Pathfactory` smart campaign, click `Activate`.

### Using Goldcast for On-Demand Viewing - Switching to On-Demand {#Goldcast-using-Goldcast-on-demand-switch}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

In most cases, the landing pages for these events are managed by DEX. These instructions assume you are using the same form and the LP is managed by DEX, not in Marketo.

1. **Marketo**: Navigate to the webcast program and update the following My Tokens

   * Update the `ondemandUrl` token with the Goldcast audience URL
     * This URL should *not* contain `https://`
     * This URL should *not* contain any `?` question marks (if it does, you did not update the custom URL slug)

1. **Marketo**: Modify the on-demand autoresponder email

   * Confirm that the URL to view the on-demand webcast is `https://{{my.ondemandUrl}}?{{my.utm}}`
   * Make any changes to the content that you need.
   * Since you are driving to Goldcast, you can use language such as "If you are prompted for an email address, please enter: {{lead.Email Address:default=No email found, please re-register using a valid email address}}". This will provide the user with a quick reference of the email address they used when registering.
   * Update the text version of the email. Then `Approve and Close`.
   * Right click on the email and choose `Send Sample`
   * Expand advanced settings, under "Sample person for tokens" begin to type in your test lead email address. This will pull in the email address to review that the tracking is working properly in your email.
   * For "Send To:" choose your email address (or type next to the `*` asterisk)

1. **Your Inbox**: Review the sample email in your inbox

   * Check all email copy
   * Click all links and confirm they are not broken
   * Click the `Watch now` CTA and view in a private browser to confirm the utms and links work.
   * :thumbs-up: If all of the above apply, move on to activating the smart campaigns!

1. **Marketo**: Update the smart campaigns (activate and deactivate)

   * Clone the `01a Registration Flow (single timeslot)` campaign to a new smart campaign called `04a On-Demand Registration Processing`
   * There will be no change to the Smart List if you are using the form DEX set up on the page originally. If the form is changing, you'll need to update the smart campaign.
   * On the Smart List: Add a filter for `Member of Program` is false. Program is `name of the program you are working on`, Program status is Webcast > Attended. This means that the person needs to fill out the registration form and not all ready be a member of the program with the status of `Attended`.
   * On the Flow: Change Step 1 to Change Program Status - Program is `name of the program you are working on` New status: `Webcast > Attended On-demand`
   * On Schedule: Select `Activate`. Immediately do the next step.
   * Under "Schedule" on the `01a Registration Flow (single timeslot)` smart campiagn, click `Deactivate`.
   * On the `04 Goldcast Processing - On Demand - Goldcast` smart campaign - Smart List, add your Goldcast `eventid`. Flow: it's all set! For your first few, feel free to review the flows (but they are all using tokens, so it should be ready to go automatically). Go to schedule and click `Activate`.

### Rescheduling an Goldcast webcast {#Goldcast-reschedule}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

In the event you need to change the date of your webcast, please follow the steps outlined below.

1. Update the date/time of the webcast on the [webcast calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=Y19xdTVqMzRsZ2ZrcmlybmM5aGx1MWRkams0MEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t) and resend invites to all presenters / panelists.
1. Update the webcast epic so the new date is reflected on the title.
1. Leave a comment on the epic stating the event has been rescheduled and tag all internal panelists and hosts.
1. Update issue due dates based on the new timeline and communicate changes to relevant team members.
1. Update the [events page](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/marketing/digital-experience/buyer-experience/-/blob/main/content/events/index.yml) with the new date and time.
1. Update the date in Goldcast
   * *The system will not automatically update registrants, but you can use the Goldcast email notifications to reach out.* Step-by-step instructions available on the [Goldcast support page](https://support.Goldcast.com/hc/en-us/articles/21420787306907-Reschedule-or-Cancel-an-Event) - You may need to be logged in to view this documentation.

### Canceling an Goldcast Webcast {#Goldcast-cancel}

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS ANCHOR -->

The process is very similar to rescheduling.

1. Remove the webcast from the Goldcast calendar.
1. Add [Canceled] to the webcast epic title then close it out.
1. Leave a comment on the epic stating the event has been canceled and tag all internal panelists and hosts.
1. Add [Canceled] to the related issues and close them out.
1. If webcast is on the Events Page and Resources Page, remove in a new MR.
1. Go into Goldcast and add [Canceled] to the title since webinars cannot be deleted if they already have registrants.
   * *The system will not automatically update registrants, but you can use the Goldcast email notifications to reach out.* Pull up the Email Notifications for the event and set the send date and time.
   * Then click on the Preview/Edit option to edit the email text.
1. In the Marketo program, deactivate all active smart campaigns and append [Canceled] to the program name.
1. Go to Salesforce, append [Canceled] to the SFDC campaign name.

### Live Webcasts - Goldcast

Go to [Goldcast](/handbook/marketing/marketing-operations/goldcast) page for more information.
