---
title: "Available Customer Programs"
description: "Programs available to specific customer types and segments."
---
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/stylesheets/biztech.css" />

### Program Content

The Digital Success team creates email programs to accelerate customer value through self-service onboarding and education. Our content drives customers to [GitLab University](https://university.gitlab.com/) hub for customer resources and learning.

### Core Customer Email Programs

The programs below are currently active. For more details on segmentation breakdown and copy doc information refer to the [Digital Success Email Program Documentation](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14udgDUoEhzMjkQMYBVmYInPUBHgpfSKm8vVDRTR3NyY/edit?usp=sharing).

| Program                      | Timing   | Segment  |
|-----------------|------------|----------|
| CSM/CSE Introduction | Day 0 of new subscription | CSM / CSE |
| Net-New  Onboarding | Day 2 of new subscription | All |
| Ultimate Upgrade Onboarding | Day 2 of Ultimate first purhcase | All |
| Duo Admin Onboarding | Day 0 of new Duo purchase | All |
| Post-renewal onboarding | Day 3 post renewal | All |
| CI Product Coach | Monthly / Ad Hoc | CSE Only |
| Security Product Coach | Monthly / Ad Hoc | CSE Only |
| Security Adoption | Day 30 | CSE / Digital SMB |
| CD Adoption | Day 50 | CSE / Digital SMB |
| Agile Adoption | Day 60 | CSE / Digital SMB |
| [Customer CSAT Survey](/handbook/sales/field-operations/customer-success-operations/cs-ops-programs/all-customer-csat-cs/) | Biannually | All |
| [Customer Newsletter](/handbook/sales/field-operations/customer-success-operations/cs-ops-programs/customer-newsletter/) | Monthly on the 4th Friday | All |

To enroll contacts into Enablement campaigns Gainsight users can enroll contacts through a multi-picklist Enablement Enrollment on the contact in Gainsight - see [issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/sales-team/field-operations/customer-success-operations/-/issues/694) for instructions.

### Customer webinars & labs

Monthly communications are sent out to all customers, targeted based on renewal date, CI score, Security score, and occasionally issue/epic use and start date.

#### Email Invites: CI Lab Invite to Low-CI Customers

Every month, customers are invited to CI and Advanced CI Hands-On Labs hosted by CSEs. These sessions are two hours long, and provide customers access to hands-on experience in a provisioned environment. Customers who receive this invite have low CI score (yellow or red). Note: If CI Product Coach is going on, CSE Customers who receive CI Product Coach do not typically receive this email.

#### Email Invites: Security Lab Invite to Ultimate

Every month, customers are invited to a Security & Compliance Hands-On Lab hosted by CSEs. This session is two hours long, and provides customers access to hands-on experience in a provisioned environment. All ultimate customers receive this invite. Note: If Security Product Coach/Security Plus is going on, CSE Customers who receive Security Product Coach/Security Plus do not typically receive this email.

#### Email Invites: Project Management/Intro to GitLab Invite to New/Low-Issue customers

When the Getting Started with Project Management Hands-On Lab is hosted in a month, customers with fewer than 3 issues/epics created and customers that are within their first two years at GitLab are invited to this event. This session is two hours long, and provides customers access to hands-on experience in a provisioned environment.

#### Email Follow-Ups

Email follow-ups are sent to all customers who have registered or attended an event within 24 hours of the event concluding. The follow-ups share the recording and slide deck, along with an invitation to check out additional resources related to the topic.

## Connect with the team

- Contact the team in slack # digital-success
- Submit a [customer-email-request issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/customer-success/digital-success/program-management/-/issues/new)
