---
title: GitLab Dedicated Logs
category: GitLab Dedicated
description: "GitLab Dedicated Support - Working with logs"
---

## Working with logs

Support can access GitLab Dedicated tenant logs through our [OpenSearch](https://opensearch.org/) infrastructure. See [Accessing logs](#accessing-logs) to get started. [OpenSearch](https://opensearch.org/) can be used like [Kibana](/handbook/support/workflows/kibana/) but read about [searching logs](#searching-logs) for information on the differences.

When working on a GitLab Dedicated ticket, prioritize asking for information that will help identify applicable log entries. It is best to start collecting this information as early in the ticket as possible. The specific kinds of information will vary depending on the problem you are trying to solve but username, project path, project ID, exact date and time with time zone, [correlation ID](https://docs.gitlab.com/administration/logs/tracing_correlation_id/) and outgoing IP address are all good examples.

The logs in OpenSearch will all be presented in the UTC time zone, regardless of the customer's time zone.

### Preprod deployments

Use the [GitLab Dedicated Preprod switchboard](./dedicated_switchboard.md#customers-with-dedicated-preprod-deployments) to find links to Opensearch logs for a specific customer's Preprod environment, when applicable.

### Log requests older than 7 days

If the customer requests logs for a period older than 7 days, a security issue should be created. Follow the same procedure as the [Security - log request workflow](./log_requests.md).

## Identifying tenants

Each customer has a dedicated set of credentials needed for examining logs in OpenSearch. The credentials and the URL for that customer's OpenSearch instance are stored in the `GitLab Dedicated - Support` [1Password vault](/handbook/security/#vaults). Each customer is noted by a three word **Internal reference** in the vault, so you must refer to the `<tenant name>` to identify the proper credentials to use for a customer. This is used as part of the accessible URL, such as: `opensearch.<tenant name>.gitlab-dedicated.com`. You should [use Switchboard](/handbook/support/workflows/dedicated_switchboard/#accessing-customer-configuration) as the single source of truth for identifying the **Internal reference** for a tenant based on the GitLab Dedicated instance URL.

## Accessing logs

To access the logs for a specific tenant find the credentials stored in the `GitLab Dedicated - Support` Vault, and access the corresponding tenant URL listed there.
Once in the tenant's OpenSearch site:

1. Select "Global" tenant
1. Choose "Discover" at the sidebar under OpenSearch Dashboards
1. On the next screen, you should see logs. Make sure that index `gitlab-*` is selected.

It is recommended to start with the `gitlab-*` index because it has a timestamp field. It shows a useful skyline graph and allows for time-filtering. The `git*` index is less useful as it does not have a timestamp field defined/used. If you are unable to see the logs, try clearing cookies, local storage, and all session data for the site and repeat the steps above.

Logs are retained for 7 days in OpenSearch; retention is longer in S3, but these are not accessible to Support. If you're working on a ticket where access to older logs would have been helpful, please flag it via the `Support::SaaS::Log retention period reached` macro (This is an internal macro for tracking purposes only). Copy and paste relevant log entries or screenshots of frequently occurring errors into an internal note in the ticket or a [field note](/handbook/support/workflows/fieldnote_issues/) in order to preserve them beyond the retention period.

### Sharing logs

Logs generated by the GitLab application **can** be shared directly with customers via a ticket. Logs that were not generated by the GitLab application can not be shared with customers. You can determine whether a log entry was generated by the GitLab application by checking:

- Is the `kubernetes.container_name` one of the following?:
  - `gitlab-shell`
  - `gitlab-workhorse`
  - `kas`
  - `registry`
  - `sidekiq`
  - `webservice`

If **yes**: the log entry **can** be shared directly with the customer via the ticket.

- Does the `fluentd_tag` have a value of `gitaly.app`?

If **yes**: the log entry **can** be shared directly with the customer via the ticket.

If one of the criteria above are not met, the log entry should not be shared
directly with the customer by default. If you think sharing the log entry would
benefit the customer, please read
[Sharing internal logs, data & graphs](/handbook/support/workflows/dedicated/#sharing-internal-logs-data--graphs).

GitLab Dedicated customers can request [access to application logs](https://docs.gitlab.com/administration/dedicated/configure_instance/#access-to-application-logs).

#### Sharing log links within GitLab

When sharing log links with other GitLab team members, be sure to generate a **Permalink**. You can do this by following these steps:

1. Use [filters](#filters) to find the log entries you are interested in
1. Click **Share** in the upper right corner
1. *Optional* Slide the **Short URL** toggle
1. Click **Copy link**

Share the link that is copied rather than the URL in your browser bar.

## Log Identification

Not sure what to look for? Consider using a Self-Managed instance to replicate the bug/action you're investigating. This will allow you to confirm whether or not an issue is specific to the specific GitLab Dedicated tenant, while also providing easily accessible logs to reference while searching through OpenSearch.

Support Engineers looking to configure a Self-Managed instance should review our [Sandbox Cloud page](/handbook/company/infrastructure-standards/realms/sandbox/) for a list of company-provided hosting options.

### Table vs JSON

Each entry in OpenSearch can be expanded to show more information by clicking the `>` icon. The **Expanded document** view has two tabs: `Table` and `JSON`. The `Table` will be shown by default. If you don't see the information you are looking for when viewing `Table`, click `JSON`. In the `JSON` view, you'll see a prettified version of the JSON content of the log entry. You can copy the JSON and parse it locally with tools like [jq](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/) or [jless](https://jless.io/).

## Searching logs

Since GitLab Dedicated uses [Cloud Native Hybrid reference architecture](https://docs.gitlab.com/administration/reference_architectures/10k_users/#cloud-native-hybrid-reference-architecture-with-helm-charts-alternative), searching logs on OpenSearch is a bit different from [Kibana](kibana.md).

- In OpenSearch, terms can be freely typed in the search bar.
  - By comparison, freely typing in the search bar is [discouraged](kibana.md#fields-and-filters) in Kibana.
- Fields can also be used as filters, similarly to [Kibana](kibana.md).

### Fields and Filters

The **fields** and **filters** available in OpenSearch can help you to find log entries more easily.

#### Fields

General fields:

- `host:` The GitLab host of the log. It can be `<tenant name>-gitaly-*`  or  `<tenant name>-consul-2`, etc.
- `referrer:` holds the project path. `https://tenant.gitlab-dedicated.com/example-group/test123`
- `message:` is the message that would be seen in the logs of a self-managed instance.  `xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx - - [08/Jul/2020:13:24:43 +0000] "GET /assets/webpack/commons-pages.projects.show-pages.projects.tree.show.21909065.chunk.js HTTP/1.1" 200 9316 "https://tenant.gitlab-dedicated.com/example-group/test123" "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/102.0.5005.63 Safari/537.36" 1343 0.001 [default-gitlab-webservice-default-8181] [] xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:8181 9309 0.000 200 fe130eac78314cwf352g3762397572cb`
- `subcomponent`: The values in this field correspond to entries in [GitLab's log system](https://docs.gitlab.com/administration/logs/). Possible values include `production_json`, `application_json`, `api_json`, `auth_json` and `graphql_json`. You can use [filters](#filters) to collect all log entries associated with a specific subcomponent.

Gitaly related fields:

- `grpc.request.glProjectPath:` The actual GitLab path project path.
- `grpc.request.repoPath:`  Project hash id path.

SAML related fields:

- `action:saml`
- `path: /users/auth/saml/callback`
- `controller: OmniauthCallbacksController`
- `location: https://tenant.gitlab-dedicated.com/`

#### Filters

Filters are a powerful way to identify the log entries you care about.

##### Creating a filter

You can create a filter in OpenSearch by following these steps after you browse to **OpenSearch Dashboards** > **Discover**:

1. Select **Add filter**
1. Click **Select a field first** in the **Field** drop-down
1. Click the **Field** you want (scroll to it or type to find it faster)
1. Select an **Operator**
1. In the **Value** field, add the string you want to filter for

To start, use the `is` **Operator**. This will let you filter for all log entries where a **Field** like `status` is `418`. There are some example [useful filters](#useful-filters) that you can use to help craft a filter.

If you don't get the results you expect and you are sure that your filter is correct: make sure that the date range is correct.

##### Useful filters

- `kubernetes.labels.app:` used to filter Kubernetes pods. `nginx-ingress`, `webservice`, etc.
- `correlation_id`: used to [find relevant log entries by correlation ID](https://docs.gitlab.com/administration/logs/tracing_correlation_id/)
Use this OpenSearch filter to find logs related to the GitLab application:

- `kubernetes.labels.release: gitlab`

###### Filter by HTTP response status code

These OpenSearch filters can be used to find logs by their [HTTP response status codes](https://http.dev/status).

To find logs where the HTTP response status code is `422`:

- **Field**: `status`
- **Operator**: `is`
- **Value**: `422`

To find all logs where the HTTP response status code is in the [4xx client error class](https://http.dev/status#4xx-client-error):

- **Field**: `status`
- **Operator**: `is between`
- **Start of the rage**: `400`
- **End of the range**: `499`

### Examples

#### Filter by correlation ID

GitLab instances log a unique request tracking ID (known as the “correlation ID”) for most requests. An important part of troubleshooting problems in GitLab is [finding relevant log entries with a correlation ID](https://docs.gitlab.com/administration/logs/tracing_correlation_id/). Opensearch permits filtering by correlation ID. You may retrieve the correlation ID from information provided by the customer or from looking through Opensearch logs.

To show all log entries for a specific correlation ID, you can:

1. Select **Add filter**
1. Click **Select a field first**
1. Choose `correlation_id`
1. In the **Operator** drop-down, select `is`
1. In the **Value** field, put the correlation ID

#### Identify a deleted group or project

Information about deleted groups and projects is available in the **Audit Events**. The customer should be able to review this information in the **Admin Area**. Provided the deletion occurred within the log retention window, additional information can be sought in OpenSearch. In order to identify more information about a deleted project or group in OpenSearch, you can use this information to guide the [filters](#filters) that you use.

1. Select **Add filter**
1. Click **Select a field first**
1. Choose `meta.caller_id`
1. In the **Operator** drop-down, select `is`
1. In the **Value**, add `GroupsController#destroy`

You can look at the values in `username`, `user_id` (or `meta.user_id`) to get more information about the user that issued the deletion request.

#### Identify a created or deleted user

Information about a user being created or deleted is available in the **Audit Events**. The customer should be able to review this information in the **Admin Area**. Provided the user was created or deleted within the log retention window, information about these events can be sought in OpenSearch. In order to identify more information about a created or deleted user, you can use this information to guide the [filters](#filters) that you want to use. For these events, we are interested in `RegistrationsController`.

1. Select **Add filter**
1. Click **Select a field first**
1. Choose `controller`
1. In the **Operator** drop-down, select `is`
1. In the **Value** box, add `RegistrationsController`
1. Click **Save**

You will now have a list of user creation and deletion events. Use the `action` [field](#fields) to look for the kinds of events you are interested in.

#### Find information about a specific pipeline

Once you know the ID of a specific pipeline, you can get information from the logs about how that pipeline was processed. Given the role that Sidekiq plays in [processing CI pipelines](https://docs.gitlab.com/administration/sidekiq/sidekiq_troubleshooting/#investigating-sidekiq-queue-backlogs-or-slow-performance), let's check the Sidekiq logs.

In this example, we'll use two filters: one to get the logs from the `sidekiq` container and another to filter on the specific pipeline ID.

Add the first filter for all of the logs from the `sidekiq` container:

1. Select **Add filter**
1. Click **Select a field first**
1. Choose `kubernetes.container_name`
1. In the **Operator** drop-down, select `is`
1. In **Value** box, add `sidekiq`
1. Click **Save**

Add the second filter so that you have all of the `sidekiq` logs about the specific pipeline:

1. Select **Add filter**
1. Click **Select a field first**
1. Choose `meta.pipeline_id`
1. In the **Operator** drop-down, select `is`
1. In the **Value** box, add the pipeline ID for the pipeline that you care about
1. Click **Save**

You can now read through the Sidekiq logs related to that specific pipeline.

#### Identify who viewed CI/CD Variables

While we do not specifically log *changes* made to CI/CD variables in our [audit logs for group events](https://docs.gitlab.com/administration/audit_event_reports/#group-audit-events), there is a way to use Kibana to see who may have viewed the variables page. Viewing the variables page is required to change the variables in question. While this does *not* necessarily indicate someone who has viewed the page in question has made changes to the variables, it should help to narrow down the list of potential users who could have done so. (If you'd like us to log these changes, we have [an issue open here to collect your comments](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/8070).)

1. Select **Add filter**
1. Click **Select a field first**
1. Choose `controller`
1. In the **Operator** drop-down, select `is`
1. In the **Value** box, add `Projects::VariablesController`
1. Click **Save**

You now have a list of logs to sort through. You can get a bit more information about the users involved by refining the query a bit further. In the **Search field names** box, type `username`. Click the **+** symbol to `Add field as column`. In the list of logs, you'll now see the `username` associated with each log entry where the CI/CD variables were viewed.

#### Retrieve and inspect SAML Responses

When [troubleshooting](https://docs.gitlab.com/user/group/saml_sso/troubleshooting/) unexpected behavior in [instance-wide SAML single sign on (SSO)](https://docs.gitlab.com/integration/saml/) for GitLab Dedicated customers, you can use OpenSearch to retrieve the SAML response.

1. Select **Add filter**
1. Click **Select a field first**
1. Choose `controller`
1. In the **Operator** drop-down, select `is`
1. In the **Value** box, add `OmniauthCallbacksController`
1. Click **Save**

As you adjust the date range appropriately, you should have a list of logs to look through. You can get a bit more information about these authentication attempts by refining the query a bit further. In the **Search field names** box, type `action`. Click the **+** symbol to `Add field as column`. In the list of logs, you'll now see the `action` associated with each authentication attempt. The `action` field will indicate whether the authentication attempt resulted in a `failure`.

You may wish to inspect an individual SAML response. When you have identified the log entry that includes the SAML response you wish to inspect, click the right arrow to view the **Expanded document**.

1. In the `params` section, you'll see a JSON object that has a key called `SAMLResponse` (The data in the `value` is the base64-encoded SAML response.)
    - Sometimes this key is too large so the log will only contain the value `truncated`. In this case, you will need to ask the customer [to capture the SAML response](https://docs.gitlab.com/user/group/saml_sso/troubleshooting/#generate-a-saml-response) themselves and send it to you.
1. Save the long string in the `value` field (it should end with `=`) to a file like `response.txt`
1. Decode the base64-encoded value with `base64 -d response.txt`.
    - To make inspection easier, write the output of the base64 decode into an XML file, for example `base64 -d response.txt > /tmp/samlresponse.xml`.
    - This file can be directly opened in some browsers like Firefox and Google Chrome to make it more readable.

Read more about [what to look for in the SAML response](https://docs.gitlab.com/user/group/saml_sso/troubleshooting/#saml-debugging-tools).

#### Debug a failed global search request

If a search request fails, it will likely throw an error in the UI with a status code. For such failures, you can find more logs with the following steps, using an example of an error `500`:

1. Select **Add filter**
1. Click **Select a field first**
1. Choose `status`
1. In the **Operator** drop-down, select `is`
1. In the **Value** box, add `500`
1. Add another filter for the failed search term. Choose `uri`
1. In the **Operator** drop-down, select `is` and in **Value** box add `/search?search=test`
1. Click **Save**

You can then filter by `correlation_id` only, to select the failed occurrence. Take note of the exact time at `@timestamp` to use in the next filter.

1. Start a new search on a duplicated Opensearch tab.
1. Noting the timestamp from above, copy the value of `kubernetes.host` and filter for logs within that `@timestamp` frame.
1. Fine-tune the results by adding more filters such as, Filter: `message` Operator: `is one of` Value: `elasticsearch` to see any logs with the term elasticsearch

Read more on [troubleshooting Elasticsearch](https://docs.gitlab.com/integration/advanced_search/elasticsearch_troubleshooting/#last-resort-to-recreate-an-index) for potential next steps.

#### Debug Hosted Runners for GitLab Dedicated

To debug tickets about Hosted Runners for GitLab Dedicated, [verify that the customer is using Hosted Runners](./dedicated_runners.md#who-is-using-hosted-runners). Refer to the [Hosted Runners for GitLab Dedicated](./dedicated_runners.md#viewing-logs) documentation page to view OpenSearch filters you can use to filter these logs.
