---
title: "DevSecOps with GitLab Duo - Hands-On Lab: Working with Security Vulnerabilities"
description: "This Hands-On Guide walks you through using GitLab Duo to explain security vulnerabilities."
---

> Estimated time to complete: 30 minutes

## Objectives

GitLab Duo extends beyond just code generation. GitLab Duo can support you through any stage of the DevSecOps lifecycle! In this lab, you will see how GitLab Duo can work with issues and merge requests inside of a project.

## Task A. Explaining a Security Vulnerability

1. Navigate to your GitLab Duo Principles Project.

1. Select the `.gitlab-ci.yml` file.

1. Select **Edit > Edit in pipeline editor**.

1. Remove all previous YAML and add the following code. Your `.gitlab-ci.yml` should look as follows:

    ```yml
    stages:
      - test

    include:
      - template: Security/SAST.gitlab-ci.yml
    ```

1. Input any Commit message, set the branch to **main**, then select **Commit changes**.

1. In the left sidebar, select **Code > Repository**.

1. Select `main.go`.

1. Select **Edit > Edit single file**.

1. Replace all of your code with the following code:

    ```go
    package main

    import (
      "net/http"
      "fmt"
    )

    func randomGitlab(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
      words := []string{"git", "lab", "repo", "commit", "branch"}
      word := words[rand.Intn(len(words))]
      
      fmt.Fprintf(w, word) 
    }

    func main() {
      http.HandleFunc("/random", randomGitlab)
      http.ListenAndServe(":8080", nil)
    }
    ```

1. Leave the Commit message as default, set the Target Branch to main, and select **Commit changes**.

1. Once the pipeline completes, navigate to **Secure > Vulnerability Report** in the left sidebar.

    > You will see a single vulnerability, `Slowloris` displayed in your report.

1. Select the vulnerability description.

    > This will navigate you to the vulnerability overview page

1. Scroll to the bottom of the page and select **Explain vulnerability**.

1. Review the response generated by GitLab Duo to understand what the vulnerability is.

## Task B. Resolve the Vulnerability

1. Navigate to the security vulnerability from the previous task.

1. At the top of the vulnerability, select **Resolve with AI**. Doing this will generate an MR that contains a fix for the vulnerability.

1. Select **Changes** on the MR and review the vulnerability fix.

## Lab Guide Complete

You have completed this lab exercise. You can view the other [lab guides for this course](/handbook/customer-success/professional-services-engineering/education-services/devsecopswithduo).

## Suggestions?

If you’d like to suggest changes to the lab, please submit them via merge request.
