The methodological approach consists of comparing two datasets: the 2020 land
use cover generated by the Ministry of the Environment, Water and Ecological
Transition, and the 2023 forest loss layer produced by Global Forest Watch.

### Gross Deforestation

It is a process of anthropogenic conversion of forest into another land cover and
use; under the thresholds of height, canopy coverage, or area established in the
forest definition over a period of time, without considering regeneration areas
during the same period. The term excludes areas of forest plantations removed as
a result of harvest or logging, and areas where trees were extracted due to forest
exploitation, and where the forest is expected to regenerate naturally or with the
help of silvicultural techniques, unless the harvesting is followed by the cutting of
remaining trees to introduce alternative land uses.

### Natural Forest Regeneration

It is the recovery of native forest through natural processes or anthropogenic
activities. As a result of this process, secondary forests appear in different stages
of development.

### Net Deforestation

It is the difference between the loss and gain of forest area (gross deforestation
minus forest regeneration) over a period of time.

### Definition of Native Forest

An arboreal ecosystem, primary or secondary, regenerated by natural succession;
characterized by the presence of trees of different native species, ages, and
varying sizes, with one or more strata. Source: Ministry of Environment, 2016.

### Definition of Forest Plantation

Tree mass anthropogenically established with one or more forest species. Source:
Ministry of Environment, 2011.
