---
title: Field Marketing and Events
---

## Important to Know

- If you are looking to work with a new service provider, review the policy for selecting new suppliers on the [Vendor Selection Process](/handbook/finance/procurement/) page.
- Do NOT agree to ANY business, legal, and or pricing prior to engaging the Procurement Team.
  - This ensures alignment across the multiple functions to make good-faith commitments to vendors and don't put our company in to possible risk.

## How Do I Submit a Request for a Contract and PO?

- Once you've chosen your vendor and have followed the Bid Requirements per above, follow these instructions:
    1. [Login to Coupa](/handbook/business-technology/enterprise-applications/guides/coupa-guide/#how-to-access-coupa) via Okta.
    1. If this is a new supplier, go to the "Forms and Quick Links" section on the Home screen, click on "Request a New Supplier" and complete the required fields. Click "Review".
            - Allow 1-2 business days for processing new supplier.
    1. If this is an existing supplier (or once your new supplier is in the system) select "Write a request" in the upper right of your screen under the search bar.
    1. Enter the required Fields and "Add to Cart"
    1. Click on your Cart in the upper right, complete remaining fields. Be prepared to include the following:
        - Whether or not the vendor will have access to [red and/or orange data](/handbook/security/standards/data-classification-standard/#data-classification-levels)
        - All data and systems the vendor will have access to
            - Failure to complete this field will significantly delay the review and approval of your request.
        - Vendor's Security Contact Email (oftentimes this is different from the main contact. Providing the head of security contact info from the vendor's company will expedite the security review and avoid delays)
        - Upload any contracts you've received.
        - Click "Submit for Approval"

## What Happens after I submit my Request?

- The Coupa Req will appear as "Pending Buyer Action", this means it is under review from the procurement team.
  - If the contract requires negotiation, the req will stay in "Pending Buyer Action" status and a "Negotiation" Label will be added to the Coupa Req.
    - Within 1-2 business days a member of the procurement team will either reach out a-sync, and/or schedule a meeting to review depending on the complexity.
  - If your contract does not require negotiation, the Procurement team will review for accuracy and if questions will ping you directly in the Coupa request.
- Once neotiation is completed and/or it is determined that negotiation is not needed, your purchase request will be approved by procurement and will advance to the next approver, which is typically fp&a.

## How Long Does it take to get my New Software Purchase Approved?

- Contracts greater than $25K are typically negotiated by the procurement team, unless you've already done so and the pricing is benchmarked.
  - The negotiation, review and approval cycle typically takes 2-3 weeks based on the scope of the request. Large and/or complex contracts can take longer to negotiate.
- Contracts less than $25K do not need to be negotiated by procurement unless there is a business reason to do so.
  - If no negotiation is required, the review and approval cycle typically takes 1-2 weeks. Large and/or complex contracts can take longer, and this can vary wildly based on supplier input into the proces.
- The procurement process consists of multiple approvals from different cross-functional teams, this can include finance, IT, security, and legal.
- All approvals are necessary before your contract can be signed for compliance purposes.

## What if I have an Urgent Request?

- Urgent requests that need approval in less than 5 business days, need to be escalated in the #procurement channel for expediting per the below.
- In your slack message you MUST include:
  - Link to your Coupa Request
    - Contracts should not be posted directly in slack
  - Date needed
  - Specific and quantifiable impact to the business if date is missed.
    - "Supplier wants it signed today" does not qualify as a reason for escalation and these requests will be denied.
    - "Price will increase $45K if not signed by Friday" or "Material negative brand impact if not signed by Friday due to missed PR deadlines" are specific, tangible, business impacts, that will be reviewed.
- Urgent requests will be evaluated. Please note these are disruptive to our workflow and our ability to meet SLA's for requests opened on time.
- We may or may not be able to accommodate your urgent request based on the risk and bandwidth available.
- If you have a critical request, **enter the request into Coupa 1-2 weeks prior to needing approval** to avoid needing escalation.

## Process for Sales Events That Cannot be Made Public

- The Events and Field team members may engage in detailed discussions related to specific upcoming sales events.
- For these discussions, stakeholders will use a private namespace called [Sales Event Planning Private](https://gitlab.com/sales-events-planning). For each event type (e.g., Sales Kick-off, QBR...etc.) a "Project" will be created.
- An issue will then be created (for each individual Event) within the applicable Project that will include: (i) applicable Agreements, (ii) description of event, (iii) important dates / times of events, (iv) any applicable changes that are being requested, and (v) any other information that is helpful for the Field, Events and Legal team to review.
- **NOTE:** All Event / Field Team Members must still create a Coupa request (in line with steps here) for any and all events. This is the case as such information is required in Coupa in order to ensure, (i) on-time / accurate billing, (ii) storage of Agreements, and (iii) review from other stakeholders (e.g., Finance)
