---
title: Introductory Meeting
description: Purpose, structure and goals of an introductory meeting between an ASE and their new account, and tips for how to make the meeting successful
---

## Overview and Purpose

When a customer account signs their first contract for a GitLab Assigned
Support Engineer (ASE), we need to be prepared to start delivering the service
on day one of the contract. But what exactly are we delivering? Even with the
terms being spelled out in the signed Statement of Work (SOW), we can't really
answer that question until we meet with the customer to tell them who we are,
learn who they are, learn how and why they use GitLab, and learn their reasons
for signing that contract.

With that purpose in mind, the ASE and their manager should work with the
account team to schedule an hour-long introductory meeting with key members of
the customer's team to occur on the first business day of the SOW. If the ASE or
the customer is not available on that day, schedule the meeting for no more
than five business days later.

## Goals

There are only a few goals for this meeting:

- Gain a shared understanding of how you and the customers will and won't work
  together
- Begin the relationship building between you and the customers
- Learn what the customers really want and need from you

## **Optional** Pre-introductory meeting between ASE and CSA

Before your introductory call, it's advisable to meet with the CSA you'll
be working alongside. Here are some key points you should go over to ensure
you're both aligned and can help each other succeed:

- Brief Introduction / Chat: Discuss work styles, preferences, expectations,
and how you can best support one another.

In addition, it's also **highly recommended** to address the following items
during the meeting, as these tips are essential for effective customer-facing
interactions:

- Avoid assigning labels to colleagues during all interactions, particularly
those that are customer-facing. For instance, a CSA should refrain from
making statements like, "This ASE is really good at CI/CD."
  - Such statements can inadvertently influence the customer’s expectations
and perceptions, potentially leading to misalignment between what is promised
and what is delivered
  - Labeling can create preconceived notions about specific team members'
roles or expertise, which may not accurately reflect their full
capabilities or responsibilities.
- Demonstrate Mutual Trust: Show a high level of trust in each other’s
abilities. If any concerns arise, address them privately, away from customers,
to maintain professionalism and avoid undermining confidence.
- Coordinate Before Involving Additional Resources: Always communicate and
discuss matters thoroughly before considering the need to involve other
resources.

## Customer Introductory Meeting Structure

1. Introduce yourself
   1. Tell them your name
      - be sure you say your name clearly and slowly enough for them to
        understand
   1. Tell them a little about your experience at and with GitLab
      - how long you've been at the company
      - how long you've been a support engineer
      - how long you've been using our products
      - what are your biggest strengths with GitLab and supporting technologies
   1. Tell them why you are excited about the opportunity
   1. Tell them how you work
   1. Tell them your time zone
1. Ask them to introduce themselves
   1. Name
   1. Role
   1. Time zone
   1. GitLab expertise
1. Review the ASE role, constraints and SOW
   1. Let them know how you'll work with them
   1. Let them know how you'll work with the account team
   1. Ask what questions they have for you
   1. Ask who your primary contact(s) will be
   1. Ask what their goals are for working with you
1. Learn about their GitLab-related Plans
   1. Why did they become GitLab customers?
   1. How are they using the product right now?
   1. What's going well and what's not going well?
   1. What are their goals for using GitLab?
   1. Determine whether it would make sense to use a
     [collaboration project](../../../../customer-success/csm/customer-collaboration-project.html)
     to track any long-term plans
1. Agree on a schedule for a regular meeting - either weekly or every other week -
   to be used for:
   1. reviewing the work you've done since the previous meeting
   1. setting priorities for the work you'll do before the next meeting
   1. agreeing on what you will not do before the next meeting, and whether
      that work can wait or needs to be done by someone else
   1. discussing upcoming projects, tasks, changes, time off, etc.

## Customer Introductory Meeting Tips

1. State clearly to the account team when the meeting is being scheduled that
   the ASE will run the meeting and that they will use the entire meeting for
   their set agenda.
1. For the meeting to be successful, all stakeholders must participate. This
   can include:
   1. The customer's technical people who are expected to be the ones working
      with the ASE on a frequent basis
   1. The individual(s) designated by the customer to act as DRI to oversee and assess the
      success of the ASE engagement.
   1. External vendors with which the customer works closely
1. Do **not** let the meeting become a troubleshooting session
1. Throughout the meeting, be sure that you speak clearly, slowly but not too
   slowly, and loudly enough but not too loudly - your aim is to be heard and
   understood the first time
1. Be yourself, gently: let the customers get to know you a little at a time
1. Be friendly and happy, and let the customers feel your energy and
   excitement around this opportunity
1. Be **early** to the meeting, and welcome each person as they join
1. This meeting is your first opportunity to set expectations with the customer,
   so let them see how we, and you, operate: stay on your agenda, keep the meeting
   flowing, be sure somebody is taking good notes, and end the meeting on time
