---
title: Iteration Retrospectives
description: This page describes how we iterate.
---

## How do we iterate?

We conduct **Iteration Retrospectives** on a monthly basis. The purpose of the Iteration Retrospective is to take a moment to reflect on how we can improve as a team on our iteration or learn lessons from a successful iteration. The lessons learned from an interaction retrospective will be an opportunity for growth for many.

All teams in the Create Stage will be conducting these retrospectives which will also facilitate cross team shared best practices and experiences.

Teams can select **successful or unsuccessful** examples of Iteration.

## Frequency

These retrospectives should be conducted quarterly.

## Before the Iteration Retrospective

Team Members / Engineering Manager should look through past issues they've worked on to find one good (challenging) candidate for the Iteration Retrospective.  A retrospective issue should be created once a candidate has been chosen.

## During the Iteration Retrospective

Team Members and the Engineering Manager should discuss alternative methods of breaking down the problem asynchronously in the issue. This activity should be timeboxed as the idea is to keep team members engaged for no more than a week.

## Iteration Retrospective Template (optional)

This is an example of a template available for you use:

**Issue Description should include:**

+ Summary of the Issue
+ Did the team meet the iteration goals?  Why or why not?
+ How many MRs were created to complete the Iteration
+ What were the Days to Merge for the MRs related to the MR
+ Are there successes or opportunities for improvement with respect to collaboration with peers or stable counterparts?
+ Could the original issue could have been broken down into smaller components?
+ Could the MR(s) have been broken down into smaller components?

**Comment 1**: Topic: What aspects of the issue / MR were very good examples of Iteration and why?

+ The team members share their positive reactions to how well iteration was applied. *

**Comment 2**: Topic: Does anyone have alternative ideas for how this work could have been broken down

+ The team members would contribute different ideas or approaches here.*

**Comment 3**: Topic: Is there anything that we can change in our processes or the way we work that could improve our iteration as a team?

*The team members would contribute different ideas or approaches here.*
