---
title: "Talent Acquisition Productivity"
description: "Talent Acquisition team and individual productivity metrics."
---

## Defining Success in Talent Acquisition

Clearly defining success is essential to ensuring we, as a Talent Acquisition team, not only know what good looks like but also have clarity on how success is measured as it relates to our job duties. When we further break down what good looks like in our craft, it is important to understand that success encompasses the what and the how - ultimately, much more than just a hiring target.

For more information on how this relates to positions and levels in our function, reference our growth profiles below.

**Growth Profiles**: [Talent Acquisition Team](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1oRaiTSzt2RrFHDpHQymfW6WR4sAorkzYgJZOij0KpvA/edit?gid=861222616#gid=861222616)

## Functional Productivity Metrics

Each quarter, the Talent Acquisition team reports out on 4 top line productivity metrics as a function. Reports can be accessed [in this folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1kfTQkd_PAgvFPrgogCLZD7opMW2wiKBS?usp=drive_link) by internal team members.

1. Achievement against our External Hiring Target
1. Average Time to Fill (period of time for a requisition opening to hire)
1. Cost per Hire
1. Requisition Aging (% of requisitions that are open 75+ days)

There are a number of additional metrics we monitor to understand the overall health of our hiring motion and where we have risk or are trending above or below industry benchmarks. Those metrics are defined to include:

- **Start Date Forecast Attainment**: Total number of external starts against forecast starts target set in partnership with Finance during the first week of each quarter. Goal is to be within +/-5% of the forecast.
- **Ending Headcount to Plan Variance**: Ending headcount from original FY25 Annual Operating Plan.
- **Reforecast**: Quarterly reforecasted ending headcount number (taking into account RLoA/Incremental Headcount additions, Headcount splits, Reallocation of funds, Culling, etc).
- **Time to Fill (TTF)**: Number of days from a requisition opening in Greenhouse to offer acceptance. Under 75 day time to fill is considered healthy.
- **Aging Requisitions**: Number of requisitions with running TTF of 75+ days. On track is anything under 10%, at risk 11-19%, and off track 20%+.
- **Offer Acceptance Rate**: Number of offers accepted divided by offers extended. On track is anything between 75-85%.
- **Source Mix**: Percentage of hires from (a) passively sourced talent (b) applications or (c) referrals. The goal is to have equal distribution to show balanced, healthy pipelines.
- **'On Hold' Requisitions**: Number of requisitions 'on hold'. These roles are in plan but technically 'closed' in the ATS, thus 'pausing' TTF until decisions have been made by the business. Any role awaiting business decision for 14+ business days will move to on hold and will be flagged with senior leadership.
- **Time to Start (TTS)**: Number of days from a requisition opening in Greenhouse to new hire starting in role.
- **Hire to Start (HTS)**: Number of days from offer acceptance to new hire start date.
- **Pipeline Conversion Rates**: Percentage of candidates moving from each stage in the recruitment process. Targets for 'on track' status include  Initial > Team interview (40-50%), Team Interview > Offer (25-33%), and Offer > Hire (75-85%).

## Recruiter Productivity Metrics

We have outlined and defined our productivity metrics for recruiters to adequately measure both quantity (such as number of hires, prospects) and the quality (such as conversion rates, sourcing rate %) of our work.

**Full Lifecycle Recruiter**

| **Metric**                                         | **Definition**                                                                                             |
|-----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| External Hires| Total number of external hires made in the course of the quarter. <br> - Technical teams goal set at 6/quarter. <br> - Non-technical teams goal set at 9/quarter.  |
| Screens per Week   | Number of recruiter phone screens at or above 12 per week.|
| Conversion Rates | Consistent management against industry benchmarks for candidate conversion through the funnel to ensure we are running a quality recruitment process. <br> Targets for 'on track' status include  Initial > Team interview (40-50%), Team Interview > Offer (25-33%), and Offer > Hire (75-85%).|

### Important Health Metrics 

In addition to our productivity metrics above, we have a number of other important metrics that we use as signals to understand  if our recruiting motion is considered 'healthy'.

1. **Sourcing Rate %**: Percentage of outreach made with a sourcing strategy targeting building representation into top of funnel. Our goal is to maintain activity above 50% consistently.
1. **Source Mix**: Percentage of hires made from applications vs. referrals vs. passively sourced candidates. Our goal is to maintain a balanced mix quarter over quarter at the team level.
1. **Time to Fill**: The average number of days from a role opening to a candidate signing an offer and being marked as hired. Our goal is to remain under 75 days TTF consistently. 
1. **Team Interview Count**: Total number of team interviews. Our goal is to keep a healthy ratio of team interviews to open roles. 
1. **Offer Acceptance Rate**: The percentage of candidates that accept an offer against total offers extended. Our goal is to hold an average AR above 75%.
1. **Candidate Throughput**: The average time it takes a candidate to move through our interview process to hire. Target to keep this metric below 75 days consistently. 

## Reporting Tools

In addition to defining our KPIs, we have also invested in our tooling to track as a team in a transparent manner. Utilizing both the KPIs and tools, TA team members should feel well equipped to own their growth, development, and performance and be able to tell a thoughtful, data-driven story when we are problem-solving, trying to understand where we might be at risk/off track, or highlighting where we have bright spots to replicate across teams.

Dashboards

1. [Recruiting Productivity Dashboard](https://10az.online.tableau.com/#/site/gitlab/views/TADemoDashboard/ProgresstoGoal?:iid=1)

1. [Recruiter Scorecard](https://10az.online.tableau.com/#/site/gitlab/views/TADemoDashboard/RecruiterScorecard?:iid=1)
