---
title: "NAVEX Compliance Courses"
description: "Compliance training processes, course info, and FAQ"
---

## Access

NAVEXEngage is GitLab's online ethics and compliance training solution. NAVEX accounts are provisioned automatically on a new hire's start date via a Workday integration and can only be accessed through Okta. All new team members have a task in their onboarding issue to complete assigned NAVEX courses within 30 days of starting. 

## Courses

New hires are enrolled in the following courses on their start date:

- Ethics and Code of Conduct
- Insider Trading
- Global Data Privacy
- Team members in Finance, Legal & Corporate Affairs, Marketing, and Sales: Anti-Bribery and Corruption
- Team members employed by or working with our public sector entity: Government Contracting: Gifts, Gratuities, and Bribery

Each of these courses should take around 30 minutes or less to complete.

### Anti-Harassment

Team members are also enrolled in the following anti-harassment-related course(s) based on their role and location.

| **Role** | **Location** | **NAVEX Course** | **Approximate Duration** |
|----------|--------------|------------|--------------------------|
| Individual Contributor | Outside the US | Global Workplace Harassment | 30 minutes |
| Individual Contributor | US | The Workplace Harassment 10 course that meets your specific jurisdictional requirements | 60 minutes (exact length will vary depending location) |
| Manager | Outside the US (unless any direct reports are located in Cook County, Illinois) | Global Workplace Harassment for Managers | 30-60 minutes |
| Manager | US (and any having direct reports located in Cook County, Illinois) | Workplace Harassment 10 for Managers, designed to meet the heightened training requirements that apply to GitLab due to its business operations in various states and the City of Chicago, Illinois | 120 minutes* |
| All | Cook County, Illinois and/or having direct reports in Cook County, Illinois | Bystander Intervention | 60 minutes* |

*If you complete the course under the time required for your jurisdiction, you will be prompted to spend the remaining time reviewing the course material in order to meet location-specific requirements.

### Refresher Training and Recertification

Team members will be enrolled in refresher training on a regular basis and asked to complete a certification for certain courses (including Ethics and Code of Conduct).

## Best Practices for Using NAVEX

For the best user experience, we recommend using Google Chrome and disabling your pop-up blocker. If your course freezes or becomes stuck, follow these best practices:

- Save and close the course.
- Expand the course player to the full screen size.
- Toggle the zoom, making sure it is set to no greater than 100%.
- Clear your cache.
- Make sure you have logged into NAVEX in only one tab/window.
- Restart your computer.

If you are experiencing course completion issues, follow these best practices:

- Clear your cache.
- Ensure your internet connection is stable.
- Don't leave the course unattended without input (i.e., running in the background).
- Close out of the course prior to changing networks, docking/undocking computers, locking your computer, stepping away from your computer, or completing other work (use the internal course 'x' as opposed to the main window 'x').

If you continue to experience difficulties or have questions, contact [#compliance-training](https://gitlab.enterprise.slack.com/archives/C01BUENE8MV).
