---
title: 'Account Risk & Renewal Management'
description: 'Processes and timelines for account renewals & risk management.'

---

Managing risk & renewals is a [core responsibility of CSMs](/handbook/customer-success/csm/#high-level-responsibilities-of-a-csm), and managers at all levels are involved in this process.

This page outlines the different actions and processes CSM management have for account risk & renewals.

## Renewal management & forecasting

CSM Managers work with their team members, and with colleagues in other groups (e.g. [Sales](/handbook/sales), [Renewals Management](/handbook/customer-success/renewals-managers/what/)), to manage and plan for upcoming renewals.

### Alignment between CSM Manager & Manager of Renewals

On a weekly basis, the [CSM Manager](/job-families/sales/customer-success-management/#manager-csm) and [Manager of Renewals](/job-families/sales/renewal-manager/#manager-renewals) discuss and update details for upcoming renewals.

### Regional field leaders risk & renewal review

Regional field leaders (CSM Managers, ASMs, AVPs, etc.) from Sales and CS meet regularly to review at-risk accounts and upcoming renewals in their territory.

*PLACEHOLDER: ADD DETAILS FOR ALIGNMENT HERE*

## At-risk account reviews

The CRO organization conducts recurring reviews of at-risk accounts at several levels. These reviews roll up from one level to the next.

### CSM global review

**Cadence:** Weekly, alternating EMEA and APAC friendly times each week

Direct reports to the [VP of Customer Success Management](/job-families/sales/customer-success-management/#vice-president-of-customer-success-management) provide updates and discuss action for at-risk customers with upcoming renewals. Focus is on the following:

1. Largest all-time customers by ARR
1. Top at-risk customers by ARR for current & next quarter

### CRO global risk review

**Cadence:**

Global field leaders provide an update on at-risk accounts to the CRO leadership team.
