---
title: "GitLab Talent Acquisition Process Framework for Talent Pools"
description: "The Talent Acquisition Process Framework for Talent Pools provides guidance on the talent pool process so the talent acquisition team can efficiently build a talent bench before we need it."
---

**Purpose**: The Talent Acquisition Process Framework for Talent Pools provides guidance on the talent pool process so the talent acquisition team can efficiently build a talent bench before we need it.

## Full Process

### **Step 1: Identify pooling needs**

Anyone on the Recruitment Team can provide sourcing support for talent pools.  The focus should be P3 and P4 Pools. (P0, P1, and P2 are reserved for active REQs) You can **[review active talent pools here](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/people-group/talent-acquisition/-/issues/447)**. You may engage with the Recruitment Leads/Managers to verify pool priorities. If the Pool is a priority, use the [Hiring Repo](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/people-group/hiring-processes/-/tree/master) to learn more about the Pool profile.

### **Step 2: Add prospects to talent pool(s) in Greenhouse CRM**

Talent Acquisition Team members should add potential matches to the appropriate Talent Pool in Greenhouse and make use of the appropriate tags to ensure the ability to easily filter prospects for specific job profiles, locations, etc. By default, all new prospects will land in prospect stage "no stage specified".

You are encouraged to find top talent using a variety of different sourcing avenues, with LinkedIn and GitLab Talent Community being the most used and efficient ones.

While LinkedIn projects can be used, all approached prospects should be added in Greenhouse as prospects. **Greenhouse is the source of truth.**  Every sourced prospect should have the name of the person who sourced them in the Source field. If a Prospect was sourced by a Talent Acquisition Team Member from the Talent Community, that user will need to [manually update the candidate's source](/handbook/hiring/greenhouse/#high-level-workflow) information.

There are multiple ways to add the candidates, as follows:

- [LinkedIn](https://support.greenhouse.io/hc/en-us/articles/204110135-Add-prospects-to-Greenhouse-Recruiting-with-LinkedIn-RSC)
- [Greenhouse plug-in](https://support.greenhouse.io/hc/en-us/articles/8302339682843-Install-the-Greenhouse-Recruiting-Chrome-extension)
- [Maildrop](https://support.greenhouse.io/hc/en-us/articles/201990630-Maildrop)
- [Enable LinkedIn Recruiter System Connect (RSC)](https://support.greenhouse.io/hc/en-us/articles/115005678103-LinkedIn-Recruiter-System-Connect-RSC-integration) so you can export candidates in one click as prospects

How to add prospects to Talent Pools:

- [Sourcing Page Written Walkthrough](/handbook/hiring/sourcing/#greenhouse-sourcing----talent-community)
- [From Greenhouse Talent Community Video Walkthrough](https://drive.google.com/file/d/174J5c0B-O8qHhjILR_FbiteJ1aXO1g_d/view)
- [From LinkedIn Video Walkthrough](https://drive.google.com/file/d/18EpEpEvlHu3q7qdWcTZMdVtQKftaHZZh/view)

### **Step 3: Qualify Prospects**

If you are helping source for a talent pool please verify the prospects you find are best qualified before reaching out to them.

The assigned Recruiter(s) to the pool have a 7 day SLA to review prospects in prospect stage "no stage specified".

- If the prospect is *not qualified*, the Recruiter will select the option to "stop considering as prospect" and provide the talent acquisition team member who added the propsect with feedback on why we are not continuing.
- If the prospect *is qualified*, the assigned Recruiter will change the  prospect stage to "Qualified" and will ask you to engage the prospect

### **Step 4: Reach Out to Prospects**

Once added to the appropriate talent pool and marked as "Qualified", the Talent Acquisition Team member who found the prospect should engage the prospect and change the prospect stage to "Contacted".  The message should clearly indicate that we do not have immediate opportunities, but are looking to start a proactive relationship.

Use our [reach out templates](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ySqgLoYnFUGtb7hdywav6iSb_NBPRhfIs6WZlGne6Ww/edit#slide=id.g8470c6f6fc_2_0) or create your own messaging for reaching out to candidates

#### Reaching Out to Prospects in the Talent Community

If you are reaching out to a pool of prospects, please be sure to check for duplicate prospect profiles prior to sending out mass communications. Duplicate prospect profiles occur when candidates join the Talent Community on multiple occasions. Although duplicate prospect profiles are automatically merged by Greenhouse, if they are still being considered as a prospect for multiple submissions, they will be sent a communication for each of their submissions. Be sure to select `Stop Considering as Prospect` for any duplicate prospect profiles that are identified prior to sending out mass communications.

To send out a mass communication to the general Talent Community

1. In the "Pools & Stages" section of the Greenhouse CRM, navigate to "GitLab Prospects" pool and select the member icon listed next to the number of prospects in that pool. Keep in mind, to view this entire pool, one must have Admin permissions enabled.
1. Next, once all prospect applications are in view, navigate to the top right and select `Bulk Actions` > `Select All` > `Edit Selected` > `Email.`
1. Once the email window populates, select the CRM email template that you're intending to send.
1. Once a CRM email template is populated, select 'no-reply@gitlab.com' in the 'From' section.
1. Scroll to the bottom of the window and select the box to `Update Prospect Pool and Stage`
1. Ensure the Prospect Pool field is "GitLab Prospects"
1. Change the Prospect Stage field to the stage of the email you're actively sending.
1. Select `Send`.
1. Capture the number of emails sent on the [CRM Metrics sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rw7pEslV82w80KTmmqnAwdxmoKv3nCMdKSusnhJCQ4Q/edit#gid=483360736).

### **Step 5: Convert Prospects to Nurture**

If the prospect responds with interest, the person who found them will collect the prospects email address and will update the prospect stage in Greenhouse from "Contacted" to "Nurture".

It is **required** we capture the following information in Greenhouse for all prospects converted to the "Nurture" stage.

- [ ] Email Address
- [ ] Current Resume or PDF of LinkedIn Profile
- [ ] Locality
  - Instructions: When making an assumption, default to a higher location factor. **Reminder:** this needs to be updated during the screening call if our assumption was incorrect.

Keep in mind, Tags can take care of other key pieces of information we may want to include on a prospect's profile.

If the prospect wants to talk with someone at GitLab to learn more about future opportunities, the person who found them will send them the Calendly link of the assigned Recruiter for the Talent Pool so a brief 15-20 "career conversation" call can be set up.  Not all prospects who get moved to "Nurture" have to complete a call.

The person who completes the "career conversation" call will add brief notes to the prospects profile in Greenhouse and add the tags "Check Activity Feed" and "Had Video Chat" to the prospect's profile. If the person who completes the "career conversation" call considers the prospect to be great overall match to GitLab they will add the "Top Candidate" tag as well. If the prospect should no longer be considered as a prospect after the call, select the option to "stop considering as a prospect".

### **Step 6: Nurture Prospects**

Prospects whose prospect stage in Greenhouse is "Nurture" should receive a monthly message from GitLab.
