---
title: "GitLab Mental Health Team Member Advocacy Group (TMAG)"
description: "We are the Mental Health Team Member Advocacy Group (TMAG) founded in the Summer of 2024. Learn more!"
---

Welcome to the Mental Health TMAG!

## Mission Statement and Vision

This group aims to unify all GitLab employees in a supportive wellness and mental health community. The Mental Health Team Member Advocacy Group (TMAG) emphasizes the four pillars of wellness: emotional, physical, social, and professional/financial well-being. It offers opportunities for individuals to share their experiences, learn about available resources, and work together to enhance and strengthen our community.

## Leadership

Co-leads: @yyugitlab and @mmacfarlane. Yin is based out of Sydney, Australia, and Matthew out of Seattle, USA. We are always happy to have more leads join! In particular, it would be fantastic to have a lead based out of EMEA as we do not cover that time zone given our APAC and AMER time zones. Please let us know if you would be interested in becoming a lead!

Executive sponsor: @lboughner. Lisa is based out of Las Vegas, USA.

Advisors & allies: Could be you!

## Benefits

- Prioritizing mental health is crucial for both our personal lives and our productivity at work. By offering more resources to team members, we can improve overall well-being and increase productivity at GitLab (a true win-win situation). Furthermore, research indicates that more people are facing mental health challenges than ever before, and the demand for resources is at an all-time high.

## Where to reach us

- Join our Slack channel #mental-health-tmag
- Create an Issue in the Mental Health TMAG Project: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/mental-health-tmag
- Sign up to get meeting invites by joining the GitLab Mental Health Google Group: https://groups.google.com/a/gitlab.com/g/wellness-mental-health
