---
title: "Trademarks at GitLab"
description: "Trademark information for GitLab team members"
---

## Trademarks at GitLab

GitLab's brand is one of its most valuable assets. As part of this, GitLab's trademarks (the name GitLab, and the GitLab <a href="https://about.gitlab.com/images/press/logo/png/gitlab-icon-rgb.png" target="_blank">Tanuki logo</a>) distinguish GitLab's product from those of its competitors. They also signify to our customers and prospects the high quality of our product, which people associate with GitLab.

## Proper use of GitLab's Trademarks

For information regarding proper use of GitLab's trademarks, see the following:

- [Trademark Guidelines](/handbook/marketing/brand-and-product-marketing/brand/brand-activation/trademark-guidelines/)
- [Brand Introduction](https://gitlab.com/-/ide/project/gitlab-org/gitlab-services/design.gitlab.com/edit/main/-/contents/brand-introduction.md/)

## Process for New GitLab Trademarks

If considering a new trademark, review the following:

- [The naming process at GitLab](/handbook/marketing/brand-and-product-marketing/brand/naming/#the-naming-process)
- [Product and feature naming guidelines](/handbook/product/product-principles/#product-and-feature-naming-guidelines)

After reviewing the above guidelines, reach out to the Brand Team in [#brand](https://app.slack.com/client/E03N1RJJX7C/C0119M5HUER), with your proposed mark, whether it's a logo or wordmark. If Brand approves use of the proposed logo or wordmark, they will reach out to Legal to discuss next steps. 

## Use of GitLab trademarks by third-parties on marketing materials

- An Authorization to use GitLab Materials must be signed by any third party wanting to include GitLab’s name or logo on their website or other marketing materials, if use of GitLab’s name or logo for the requested purposes is not already covered in an existing agreement.
- Follow these steps to get the Authorization signed:

1. Locate and download the [Master Authorization Template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1utvdSknJ0hm5m0_6T9SkeXaFqJSZgB6w/copy) in GitLab’s G-Drive (Note this is only available to GitLab team members).

1. Send the template to the third party via DocuSign, ensuring that the DocuSign envelope you create requests the following details, which will appear in the signature block of the Authorization:

- Company Name
- Company Address
- Email Address for Notices
- Legal Contact

1. [Contact GitLab Legal](/handbook/legal/#how-to-reach-us) to obtain approval for any **modifications** the third party requests to the Authorization.

1. Assign the Authorization for countersignature via DocuSign to an appropriate GitLab team member identified in the [Signature Authorization Matrix](/handbook/legal/#authorization-matrix).

## Third party infringement of GitLab trademarks

**For GitLab Team Members Only:**

If we suspect that a third party is making unauthorized use of the term **GitLab**, or any other GitLab trademark, the process below should be followed:

1. Open a confidential legal issue [legal issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/legal-and-compliance/-/issues/new?issuable_template=general-legal-template), providing details of the infringement, and including a link to the infringing material.

2. The Legal and Corporate Affairs team will review the request, and assess if the use constitutes infringement, or is covered by a [fair use exemption](/handbook/legal/policies/product-third-party-trademarks-guidelines/#fair-use-of-third-party-trademarks). If no infringement is identified, the issue should be updated with the outcome of the review, and closed.

3. If infringement is identified, the Legal and Corporate Affairs team will contact the relevant party (e.g. website/platform operator or content manager) to request that the infringement be stopped.

**Some examples of unauthorized use may be found in:**

- **Third party marketing materials or product names:** Unauthorized use in a way that infers that GitLab endorses or sponsors the publisher of the marketing material.
- **Browser ads (title or copy):** These uses can be reported by the Legal and Corporate Affairs team to the relevant browser operator (e.g. [Google](https://reportcontent.google.com/forms/legal_trademarks/trademark_ads), [Bing](https://about.ads.microsoft.com/en/forms/policies/intellectual-property-complaint-form).

**If you’re not a GitLab team member, please share any reports of suspected infringement with us at intellectualproperty@gitlab.com.**

## Third-party Trademarks

For information on use of third-party IP in external materials, see our [Guidelines for Use of Third-party IP in External Materials](/handbook/legal/ip-public-materials-guidelines/).
