---
title: "Adding Content"
linkTitle: "Adding Content"
weight: 1
description: >
  This page tells you how to add content to your Docsy site.
---

So you've got a new Hugo website with Docsy, now it's time to add some content! This page tells you how to use the theme to add and structure your site content.

## Content sections

Hugo builds your site pages using the content you provide in Markdown plus any templates provided by your site's theme. The Docsy theme comes with templates for the top level sections `docs`, `blog`, and `community`, and a default landing page type of template used for any other section (in our example site it's used for the site landing page and the About page). 

Hugo applies the appropriate template depending on which section folder the content is in, though you can override this by explicitly specifying a template for a particular page. For example, this page is in the `docs` subdirectory of the site's content root directory `content/en/`, so Hugo automatically applies the `docs` layout, which includes a left nav, page contents, and GitHub links (populated from your site config) for readers to edit the page or create issues. See the pages in this and the example site for more examples of how to use the templates.

Both the example site landing page and About page use Docsy's provided Hugo shortcode [page blocks](#shortcode-blocks) to quickly build the page. You can find out more about configuring your landing pages in [customizing landing pages](#customizing_landing_pages) below.

The `community` landing page template has boilerplate content that's automatically filled in with the project name and community links specified in `config.toml`. If you're creating your own site and want to add a page using this template, add a `/community/_index.md` file in your content root directory.

If you've copied the example site and don't want to use one of the provided content sections, just delete the appropriate content subdirectory.

You can find out much more about how Hugo page layouts work in [Hugo Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/).

## Working with docs and blog posts

By default you create docs and blog posts in a Docsy site as simple [Markdown or HTML files](https://gohugo.io/content-management/formats/) with some metadata frontmatter specified in TOML, YAML, or JSON (our example site uses YAML). Hugo currently uses [BlackFriday](https://github.com/russross/blackfriday) as its default Markdown parser. 

File frontmatter can specify the page title, description, creation date, link title, template, menu weighting, and even any resources such as images used by the page. For example, here's the frontmatter for this page:

```
---
title: "Adding Content"
linkTitle: "Adding Content"
weight: 1
description: >
  This page tells you how to add content to your Docsy site.
---
```

You can learn more about Hugo page metadata in [Front Matter](https://gohugo.io/content-management/front-matter/).

As you can see from the example site, the docs and blog layouts are quite similar: which template is applied depends on whether you've added the content to the `blog` or `docs` content directory. You can create doc pages and blog posts as standalone files in their subdirectory, or as folders with their own `_index.md`, which lets you [bundle](https://gohugo.io/content-management/page-bundles/) images and other resources together with the content. You can see examples of both approaches in this and our example site.

{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}}
Hugo also supports adding content using other markups using [external parsers as helpers](https://gohugo.io/content-management/formats/#additional-formats-through-external-helpers). For example, you can add content in RST using `rst2html` as an external parser (though be aware this does not support all flavors of RST, such as Sphinx RST). Similarly, you can use `asciidoctor` to parse Asciidoc files, or `pandoc` for other formats.

Using external parsers may not be suitable for use with all deployment options, as you'll need to install the external parser and run Hugo yourself to generate your site, and may cause performance issues building larger sites.
{{% /alert %}}

### Organizing your documentation

Docsy's `docs` layout gives you a left nav pane with an autogenerated nested menu based on your `docs` file structure. Each standalone page in the `docs/` directory or subfolder with an `_index.md` or `_index.html`  page has a top level menu item using the link name and `weight` metadata from the page or index. If a subfolder has other pages, those will appear in a submenu (look to the left to see one in action!), again ordered by page `weight`. Find out more about adding Docsy's navigation metadata in [Navigation and Search](/docs/navigation/)

If you've copied the example site, you'll already have some suggested subfolders in your `docs` directory, with guidance for what types of content to put in them and some example Markdown pages. You can find out more about organizing your content with Docsy in [Organizing Your Content](/docs/organizing/).

### Organizing your blog posts

Docsy's `blog` layout also gives you a left nav menu (like the `docs` layout), and a list-type landing page for your blog that's applied to `/blog/_index.md` and automatically displays snippets of all your recent posts in reverse chronological order. You can create different blog categories to organize your posts by creating subfolders in `blog/`: for instance, in our example site we have `news` and `releases`. Each category needs to have its own `_index.md` or `_index.html` landing page file specifying the category title for it to appear properly in the left nav and top-level blog landing page. Here's the index page for `releases`:

```
---
title: "New Releases"
linkTitle: "Releases"
weight: 20
---
```

Make sure you add author and date metadata to blog post frontmatter so they're displayed along with your blog posts:

```
---
date: 2018-10-06
title: "Easy documentation with Docsy"
linkTitle: "Announcing Docsy"
description: "The Docsy Hugo theme lets project maintainers and contributors focus on content, not on reinventing a website infrastructure from scratch"
author: Riona MacNamara
resources:
- src: "**.{png,jpg}"
  title: "Image #:counter"
  params:
    byline: "Photo: Riona MacNamara / CC-BY-CA"
---
```

If you've copied the example site and you don't want a blog section, or want to link to an external blog instead, just delete the `blog` subdirectory.


## Working with landing pages.

If you've copied the example site, you already have a simple site landing page made up of Docsy's provided Hugo shortcode [page blocks](#shortcode-blocks) in `content/en/_index.html`. To customize the large landing image, which is in a [cover](#blocks-cover) block, replace the `content/en/featured-background.jpg` file in your project with your own image (it can be called whatever you like as long as it has `background` in the file name). You can remove or add as many blocks as you like, as well as adding your own custom content. 

The example site also has an About page in `content/en/about/_index.html` using the same Docsy landing page template. Again, this is made up of [page blocks](#shortcode-blocks), including another background image in `content/en/about/featured-background.jpg`. As with the site landing page, you can replace the image, remove or add blocks, or just add your own content.

If you've just used the theme, you can still use all the provided page blocks (or any other content you want) to build your own landing pages in the same file locations.

Find out more about using Docsy's page blocks in [Docsy Shortcodes](/docs/adding-content/shortcodes).


